Johannesburg - The Gauteng Department of Health has warned members of the community of the emergence of fake job, internship, and bursary advertisements that are making the rounds on social media. The department spokesperson, Motalatale Modiba, said the fake advertisements are aimed at exploiting the desperate socio-economic conditions of many people who are on the job market. "In the latest scam, a dubious text message was sent to a number of people, inviting them to an ‘interview’ at Steve Biko Academic Hospital in Pretoria. When you are shortlisted for an interview in the department, you receive a formal invitation letter to an interview, not through a text message," Modiba said. The department added that in another fictitious advertisement that has been circulating nationally on social media platforms, unsuspecting people are invited to apply for an SA Nurse internship and job opportunity by submitting their details to a bogus online portal. "The department advertises vacancies and bursaries through official platforms, such as the Gauteng Online portal, the Department of Public Service and Administration circular, which is published on the DPSA website, official departmental social media platforms, and mainstream newspapers," Modiba said. "Furthermore, employment applications are not faxed. Rather, they are either sent via post, emailed, or dropped off physically at a designated hospital, clinic, or any of our facilities in their original form for verification." The department also warned the public that some of these bogus job and bursary postings require applicants to pay a fee in exchange for employment. "If you are requested money in exchange for employment, please report the matter to the police. No money is required to apply for jobs and bursaries in the public service," Modiba said. The Gauteng Department of Health has pleaded with community members to always be cautious and verify job and bursary advertisements that are circulated on social media platforms against those posted on the above-mentioned official sites. The Star