Johannesburg - The City of Ekurhuleni has threatened to take action against ratepayers who have been defaulting on their monthly instalments. The municipality is currently under the leadership of a minority DA-led government, which has made running the municipality difficult.  Municipal services have been in the spotlight, with residents complaining that there was little or no service delivery in some areas.  The collection of rates was also in the spotlight, with Ekurhuleni suffering from poor collection. “The City of Ekurhuleni calls on all municipal account defaulters to pay up or face increased action, which includes the cutting of services. Debt management interventions are being intensified against all account defaulters to ensure the City’s financial sustainability and the continued delivery of quality public services,” the municipality said in a statement. The statement said the City will embark on a new SMS and email campaign entitled #PayYourPart, reminding residents to pay by the pending due date if they have not yet done so and encouraging those in arrears to pay up if they can or to approach the City to discuss payment options. “Account holders who have yet to pay or make arrangements to settle their debts will have their water restricted and electricity supplies disconnected until proof of payment on their accounts is provided to the City,” the municipality said. According to the statement, paying municipal debts has become easy and can be done online or at various shops instead of going to the municipal offices. “The City will continue to intervene to establish a payment culture in our communities. Residents are encouraged to visit their nearest Customer Care Centre for advice and guidance if they have any queries regarding their arrears,” the municipality said. The City of Joburg had also gone on a debt collection spree, targeting businesses and residential areas. It was also in a poor financial state, with the mayor seeking support in getting a R2-billion loan from the Development Bank of Southern Africa (DBSA). The City of Joburg was unable to pay contractors and some service providers. The ANC had accused the DA-led administration of driving the city into a financial mess. The Star