Johannesburg - Illegal dumping interventions in the City of Joburg are indirectly creating a new generation of illegal dumpers, according to the city. MMC for Environment and Infrastructure Services Michael Sun said that over the festive season, Johannesburg was plagued with illegal dumping in several areas, including the inner city, Bramley, and Malvern. According to the city, PikitUp has already collected 76 757 tons of illegally dumped waste across the city in the first quarter of the 2022/2023 financial year. “Piles of rubbish were simply tossed onto the streets and open public spaces by unruly residents and businesses having total disregard for our environment and laws,” Sun said. The city said PikitUp has been working tirelessly to clear up more than 1 900 illegal dumping hot spots following the recent procurement of 41 illegal waste collection tipper trucks; however, Joburg residents and businesses continue to illegally dump. Sun said the affected have lodged complaints, and the city is inundated with social media claims putting the blame on PikitUp. “Indeed, we must do more to ensure a cleaner environment, but we must not shift focus away from illegal dumpers and their illegal activities by blaming the government for offences committed by these unruly offenders, as it will only encourage more illegal dumping as it will become an accepted practice in society,” said Sun. “We don’t have unlimited resources to clean up after illegal dumpers.” According to the city, PikitUp has spent just under R93 million clearing up illegal dumping sites across the city for the 2021/2022 financial year. “This money could have been better used to maintain and replace the city’s ageing water and electricity infrastructure,” said Sun. In efforts to step up the fight against illegal dumping, the city said PikitUp and about 60 JMPD officers are joining forces to focus on illegal dumping. “Offenders can expect to be fined up to R5 000 for every breach of the by-law committed. In addition, PikitUp has deployed two mechanical street sweeper trucks per shift in the inner city to ensure a more effective clean-up operation,” Sun said. “It is our responsibility as the residents of Joburg to keep our environment clean and call out those members in our community who illegally dump their rubbish on our streets and in open spaces.” The Star