Johannesburg - Gauteng Traffic Police are urging motorists to comply with road safety rules and regulations, with over 100 road fatalities having been recorded to date in the province. The fatalities occurred since the beginning of the festive season, and the department wants more compliance in order to save lives. A number of motorists are expected to return from holiday destinations to Gauteng province to resume work after spending time with their families. The department said many roads leading into Gauteng are expected to be heavily congested today and tomorrow. Major routes and freeways expected to experience high traffic volumes include the N1 Polokwane to Pretoria, N1 Bloemfontein to Johannesburg, N4 Rustenburg to Pretoria, N4 Emalahleni to Pretoria, N12 Emalahleni to Johannesburg, N3 Durban to Johannesburg, N12 Potchefstroom to Johannesburg, and R573 Pretoria Moloto Road. “We urge road users to comply with road safety rules and regulations. Road crashes and fatalities contribute to the alarming rate of disabilities and deaths in the province,” said Sello Maremane, Gauteng Traffic Police spokesperson. Maremane said this is largely attributed to the attitude and behaviour of road users, such as unsafe overtaking, unsafe lane changing, speeding, pedestrian jaywalking and lack of concentration by drivers. Substance abuse and vehicle fitness have compounded the situation on the roads. “The Gauteng Traffic Police will be on high alert as part of the integrated law enforcement plan to deal decisively with any form of road traffic violations such as drunk driving, reckless and negligent driving, speeding, jay walking, freight overloading and roadworthiness,” Maremane said. Quick Facts road safety tips: Motorists are advised to switch on their head lamps in order to enhance visibility on the road. Pedestrians should cross the road only when it is safe or when allowed by a road traffic sign to do so. Passengers using public transport should not carry large luggages with them which may obscure the driver’s vision. Public transport operators must refrain from continuously driving on yellow lanes on freeways as this is illegal and also endangers other road users. Speeding and unsafe overtaking must be avoided at all times. The Star