Johannesburg - The multiparty coalition in the City of Tshwane could collapse should the DA administration fail to prove to ActionSA that the party is not corrupt. ActionSA leader Herman Mashaba said he was concerned about the issuing of several tenders in the City of Tshwane; one of the tenders included the R295 million Rooiwaal tender, which was being investigated by the Special Investigation Unit (SIU). Mashaba told The Star that he was also concerned about the adverse findings in the auditor-general’s report. He said ActionSA would not want to be associated with corruption. "I am actually worried about the coalition in Tshwane. If these issues are not solved, then we have a problem. ActionSA does not want to be part of corruption, and we hope that there was no corruption in Tshwane," Mashaba said. He said ActionSA remained committed to the DA-led coalition in Tshwane and wanted to ensure that the ANC remained out of power in all municipalities, although he blamed the DA for collapsing the multiparty government in Johannesburg. "The DA collapsed the coalition in the City of Joburg. We did all we could as coalition partners to save Johannesburg from the ANC, but the DA was not interested in saving the city. Now we are on the opposition benches, and we have no relationship," Mashaba said. There had been rumours in the political world that former Johannesburg mayor Mpho Phalatse would be joining Mashaba’s party as a provincial leader. The Star  understands that Phalatse was also preparing to contest DA national leader John Steenhuisen for the party’s top position. There had been tension for some time between the two leaders, although both parties have denied having a problem with one another. Phalatse was expected to hold a press briefing this week to announce her pregnancy and plans to contest Steenhuisen as the national congress in April. It was not clear if she would be elected as DA caucus leader in the City of Joburg, with controversy surrounding her relationship with ActionSA. The Star had contacted Phalatse on these issues, but there was no reply. Mashaba had told The Star that Phalatse or any other person who wanted to join ActionSA with good intentions was welcome to do so. "ActionSA is a voluntary organisation, and anyone who wants to serve honestly is welcome as long as they are not hiding money under the mattress," he said. Thapelo Amad was expected to be sworn in as the mayor of the City of Joburg on Monday, together with his mayoral committee.  The City of Ekurhuleni was also expected to hold a special council sitting to remove the DA speaker in council through a motion of no confidence. The Star