Johannesburg - Minister of International Affairs and Co-operation Naledi Pandor welcomed the Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mevlut Cavusoglu, to South Africa at a press conference in Pretoria on Tuesday. Cavusoglu is on a tour of several African countries, which includes South Africa, Zimbabwe, Rwanda, and Gabon. On Monday, Cavusoglu officially inaugurated the Turkish Consulate General in Cape Town. His tour to Africa was expected to end on January 14. He told members of the media that Turkey was interested in strengthening ties with South Africa, and developing strong economic and business partnerships that would see the two countries prosper.  The two ministers also discussed issues around visas and work permits as well as foreign policy issues. “The relationship between our friendly countries dates back to the late 19th century. Today, with our colleagues, we had discussions on bilateral as well as international issues. This year we hope to hold the first binational meeting in Turkey. Our trade volume has increased by 50% and will exceed $3 billion (about R51bn) in 2022,” Cavusoglu said. Cavusoglu spoke about the importance of having economic commissions that would enhance business relations with South Africa. He mentioned the possibility of a business forum that would make engagement between the two economies easier. “Today we spoke about the possibility of convening a business forum, and we discussed opportunities in infrastructure and energy projects. We are also glad to announce that the MoU on scientific and technological corporations has been signed between our relevant authorities,” Cavusoglu said. He said Turkey would be granting additional flights between South Africa and Turkey to enable trade and tourism. “We will continue promoting South Africa in Turkey. The Turkish Development and Corporation Agency opened its office in Pretoria in 2017, and so far it has implemented more than 50 projects in many areas, including restoration, health, education, and vocational training,” he said. Turkey has been involved in different spheres of life in South Africa. The country was the first to be involved in humanitarian relief in KwaZulu-Natal during last year’s deadly floods. The country has rooted itself in South Africa with the establishment of a Turkish cultural studies Centre and a number of educational projects in South Africa. “We are ready to increase the number of students who benefit from the Turkish scholarships; we need to promote Turkey scholarships together,” Cavusoglu said. Pandor said she was pleased with the way the discussion between South Africa and Turkey had gone, promising that Pretoria would keep its end of the deal in fostering close working relations with Turkey. “Our discussions were very frank and open, which I like, and I am pleased about the progress on a variety of issues that we confirmed today,” Pandor said. The Star