Johannesburg - Gauteng Premier Panyaza Lesufi, who previously called for Soweto’s Eskom debt to be scrapped, has called for Soweto residents to pay for electricity while the government finds lasting solutions. Yesterday, Lesufi led a delegation of MECs to address the myriad issues affecting Soweto residents during his community outreach programme held at Mzansi Park next to Dr BW Vilakazi Secondary School in Zola, Soweto. “Until we remove the debt, we are not going to resolve. We can’t just remove the debt, but must agree on a process to ensure that the elderly and the unemployed do not pay. However, businesses and the employed among us must pay; that is the process we must undertake to protect the elderly and the unemployed,” he said. In the past and during his first days as Gauteng premier, Lesufi had called for Soweto’s Eskom debt to be scrapped. However, yesterday, Lesufi called for lasting solutions to the Eskom debt, saying it would not be possible to wipe out the debt in its entirety at the moment. Lesufi promised to address some of the burning issues affecting the community, such as Eskom, load shedding, crime, drug abuse and a lack of service delivery. Members of the community spoke out on some of the issues affecting them, with one resident pointing out the issue of drug abuse as well as community members openly selling drugs to children. A Soweto resident who identified himself as Leonard Mabaso, asked Lesufi and his delegation of leaders, how ANC leaders lived with themselves when citizens of the country were living in poverty. “We no longer see our leaders once they are appointed to positions of power.  Leaders must be with us in the streets. You must come out of your offices because if you do not, we will hide our parents’ IDs and we will vote you out come election time next year,” Mabaso said. Sthembile Thanjekwayo runs a community-based organisation called Zihlezihle aimed at giving young people information on agricultural issues. Thanjekwayo decried the status of the Emndeni library, saying it was dilapidated and lacking proper resources to empower young people. “The status of our library is very sad. This library is without books and wi-fi, yet when you go to Fourways, the library there is well-resourced and equipped. How are our children meant to access information when their library is like this?” she asked. Another resident called on Eskom to install prepaid meters and not cut their lights out. “We want prepaid electricity, and we have signed a petition as a community calling for prepaid meters to be installed. All we ask for is for Eskom not to cut our lights off,” she said. Archie Sibisi, who is a member of the community policing forum, said drugs were a big issue in Zola and surrounding areas. “There are about four or five houses openly selling drugs in our community, and some of the people selling drugs to our children are here. Schools are being vandalised because of the drug problem. We urge you to please come with us to Naledi police station so you can see for yourself that there are nyaope kids sleeping inside the police station,” Sibisi cried. However, the premier urged business owners and employed individuals to pay for electricity, adding that the elderly and the unemployed should not be subjected to cut-offs. “We have spoken to Eskom and told them that there should be no power cuts for the people of Soweto until there is a clear programme of action and lasting solutions on this issue. After meeting the leadership, I led a delegation of mayors and MECs and met Eskom to deal with the Eskom issue, especially here in Zola. No Eskom employee will come to disconnect this community until we have agreed on a programme of action,” he said. The Star