Mpho Mukosi Johannesburg - Even with load shedding causing him difficulties, Edenvale High School in Ekurhuleni matriculant Samir Sankar said that it was a fun year for him. Samir was named in Gauteng’s top achievers list for obtaining more than five distinctions. He obtained five distinctions in maths, life orientation, business studies, history and physical science. The excited youngster said that his studies were not the only challenge he had to face during the course of the year, as load shedding was also one of the biggest problems while preparing for his final exam. “Along with load shedding and trying to study with LED lights continuously hurting my eyes, I had difficulties while preparing for my last papers,” said Samir. Samir found that his matric year was not an easy journey. With all the work he had to do, it was a bit overwhelming. “Trying to cover all the school contents in a limited time frame proved to be a bit challenging,” he said. With the help of his friends and teachers, he said he managed to have everything under control during the year. “I got all the possible support that I could ever ask for from everyone who was close to me; my parents would stay up all night till the sun rose while I was studying for my last papers,” said Samir. The learner said he has applied to several universities, and all of them have already accepted him. He told The Star that he would like to study actuarial sciences. “I never really set out with any particular goals in mind, but all I knew was that I wanted to give my best effort for my final year of school,” he added. Samir’s parents said jointly that they were proud of their son’s achievement and that they knew that he had sacrificed a lot in order to be where he is right now. “We both wish that he can remain grounded while also reaching for the stars,” said his parents. The pupil advised this year’s matric learners to take care of their body and mind, to stay focused and always remember that every minute counts as they enter their matric year of 2023. The Star