Johannesburg - The National Department of Health will commence with the compensation to eligible former miners who contracted lung diseases between March 1965 and December 2019.  From Monday, January 23 to February 4, the Department of Health will begin with the programme of screening, verification, medical examination and payment of benefits to eligible former mine workers who contracted tuberculosis (TB) or silicosis while working for certain mines in the country between March 1965 and December 2019. Silicosis is a long-term lung disease caused by inhaling large amounts of crystalline silica dust, usually over many years. The nationwide programme will start in northern KwaZulu-Natal before moving to other provinces.  In 2018, South African gold producers reached a class action settlement with law firms representing thousands of miners who contracted the fatal lung diseases silicosis and tuberculosis. The class action suit was launched in 2012 on behalf of miners suffering from silicosis, contracted by inhaling silica dust in gold mines. The department said the claimants were urged to bring along relevant documents such as a valid South African ID or SADC passport, industry card, service records from the mine they worked at, any available medical records, and, in cases in which the mineworker had since died, their death certificate and post-mortem report, if available. “The compensation amount will depend on a number of factors including the severity of the permanent respiratory impairment suffered by the mineworkers and their employment history at qualifying and non-qualifying mines,” said Health Department spokesperson Foster Mohale.  “However, in the case where the mineworker has passed on, the dependants are urged to submit the relevant documents including a death certificate.” The department added that a claim for a mineworker who died before December 10, 2019 would only be eligible if the main cause of death was attributed to silicosis or TB, or there was an approved Occupational Diseases in Mines & Works Act (Odmwa) certificate or other exceptions. The Health Department provided a list of qualifying gold mines and periods which is accessible via the link: https://www.tshiamisotrust.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/schedule-f-qualifying-mines-and-qualifying-periods-in-respect-to-qualifying-mines-06072020.pdf The department has called upon all former miner workers or their dependants to visit their nearest lodgement site. Compensation claims can be lodged at the following sites in KZN:  • Vryheid Hospital and Dumbe Community Health Centre in KwaZulu-Natal will service local communities on January 23 and 24 from 8am – 4pm. • Nkonjeni Hospital will service communities around Ulundi on January 26 and 27 from 8am – 4pm.  • Itshelejuba Hospital will service people from Pongola and surrounding communities from January 30 to February 4 from 8am – 4pm.  •  The Benedictine Hospital will service people from Nongoma, Usuthu and surrounding communities from January 30 to February 4 from 8am – 4pm; people from Mandlakazi and surrounding communities on February 1 from 8am – 4pm; and Matheni and surrounding communities on February 2 from 8am – 4pm.  To check if you may have a valid claim, please contact the Tshiamiso Call Centre at 080 100 0240 from within South African borders or send WhatsApp message on 078 504 9004 or email info@tshiamisotrust.com. Those outside the country can phone 00 27 10 500 6186. The Star