Johannesburg - As 2023 dawned with joyous celebrations, hospitals across Gauteng welcomed the babies born in the new year. The Gauteng Department of Health confirmed that provincial public health facilities delivered 167 babies on January 1, 2023, between midnight and noon. Gauteng MEC for Health and Wellness Nomantu Nkomo-Ralehoko visited Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital where she welcomed and celebrated mothers with newborns and handed over gifts. She also encouraged them to register their babies at the Department of Home Affairs offices in Gauteng and further promoted immunisation and breast-feeding. “We are also encouraging all the mothers who have just delivered their bundles of joy to make use of the Department of Home Affairs offices that are in-house at our facilities to register their babies before going home. “We are also encouraging them to exclusively breast-feed their babies for six months as breast milk contains all the nutritional and antibodies babies need to grow and protect them from illnesses. They must also ensure that their little ones are immunised at regular ages to protect them from diseases such as polio, hepatitis, measles and meningitis,” said Nkomo-Ralehoko. Academic hospitals delivered 15 babies, mostly at Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital with seven babies, followed by Dr George Mukhari Academic Hospital with four deliveries. Tertiary hospitals delivered 25 babies, with Tembisa Hospital welcoming 20 babies and Kalafong Hospital with four deliveries. An overall report for Christmas and New Year reveals that a total of 852 babies were delivered in Gauteng, which includes academic hospitals, tertiary hospitals, regional and district hospitals, and community health care centres. Tembisa Hospital also shared thrilling details on social media about Baby Mtshali, a boy who was born at 1.15am in 2023. “Tembisa Hospital welcomes New Year’s babies. The first baby, Baby Mtshali (a male), born to Sibongiseni Mtshali, was born at 1.15. Tembisa staff gave him a warm welcome by parading him throughout the corridors of the hospital.” The nursing staff, led by Matron Violet Ramapala, received Mtshali with a friendly welcome and paraded him around the hospital with joyous songs. The Star