Johannesburg - Former mayor of Johannesburg, Mpho Phalatse, has her eye on contesting John Steenhuisen for the position of federal leader of the DA. Phalatse briefed the media in Soweto on Monday, where she confirmed that she would be contesting for the DA’s top job.  Over the past few months, Phalatse has been in a strained relationship with Steenhuisen. ‘The Star’ understands that some in the DA were shocked that she would want the position of party leader when she failed to keep things together in the City of Johannesburg. “I believe that I am the kind of person that can help us find each other for the sake of our country. This country needs the Democratic Alliance. This is a contest and I have to put in the work. I know I have time to put in the time to win this contest, and I believe I represent the kind of leader South Africans would like to see in the DA,” Phalatse said. Despite rumours to the contrary, Phalatse said she would not leave the DA after her party sabotaged talks to save the multi-party coalition in Johannesburg. ActionSA went as far as to accuse the DA of setting Phalatse up for failure. “I am going to change the narrative by not leaving. That is what people expect - that when things are tough, we leave. I will stay, and I will look at our challenges. I will look at why there is a trust deficit between us and the electorate,” she said. Phalatse said if she won the contest, she would introduce new ideas to the DA and dispel the myth that it spat out black leaders. She said she believed the DA was the only party that could save South Africa. “I do not believe  the DA spits out black leaders. I believe we are a party faced with our own challenges. I do not think I am being used to bring in the black vote. I think I am a very independent mind,” she said. ‘The Star’ understands that the DA was annoyed by the manner in which Phalatse conducted herself as mayor. She was accused of listening more to ActionSA, where her husband is a top member, than to the DA. Some of Phalatse’s relationships in her own caucus in the City of Johannesburg were destroyed because of differences in delivering party mandates in the municipality. DA spokesperson Cilliers Brink told The Star that he could not comment on the contest between the two parties. He said the party looks forward to their national elective congress in April. The Star