Johannesburg - This weekend, the National Energy Crisis Committee (NECOM) released a six-month progress update on implementation of the Energy Action Plan. According to a presidency statement, the update follows a period of load shedding that was escalated to Stage 6 due to a high number of breakdowns across Eskom’s generation fleet. "The declining energy availability factor of Eskom’s fleet reflects the cumulative impact of historical underinvestment in maintenance and assets, exacerbated by flaws in the design of new power stations in the last decade. "To respond to the severe impact of load shedding on households, small businesses, and the economy as a whole, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced a range of measures in July 2022 to improve the performance of existing power stations and add new generation capacity as quickly as possible," said the presidency. The statement said that Ramaphosa convened the NECOM last week  to accelerate the government's efforts to reduce load shedding. The progress update outlined important steps that have been taken to follow through on the commitments announced by Ramaphosa; these include, among others, Eskom developing and launching a programme to purchase power from companies with available generation capacity through a standard offer, and that Schedule 2 of the Electricity Regulation Act has been amended to remove the licensing requirement for generation projects, which will significantly accelerate private investment. The presidency said six power stations have been identified for particular focus over the coming months through a comprehensive Generation Recovery Plan, with oversight from the new Eskom board. Ramaphosa admitted that the public were right to demand immediate action to address the devastating impact of load shedding on  people’s lives and on the economy. "The Energy Action Plan provides a clear way out of this crisis. We do not need any new plans; we are focusing on implementing this plan fully and effectively to achieve energy security for all South Africans," he said. Ramaphosa said that he further instructed law-enforcement agencies to ramp up efforts to protect electricity infrastructure. The Star