Johannesburg - The future looks bright as young female learners are top achievers at Trinityhouse Randpark Ridge, where they obtained between six and 10 distinctions in the 2022 matric academic year. Nina Swart is a top achiever after bagging 10 distinctions, followed by Lauren Bowman, who bagged nine, and Mutsa Chingwena, who bagged six. Swart appeared on the Independent Examinations Board’s (IEB) outstanding achievement list for achieving within the top 5% in 6 or more subjects and achieving a rating level of 7 in Life Orientation. The three female learners are among 13 who did extremely well in the last academic year. The school had 110 learners doing matric; it achieved a 100% pass rate and 219 distinctions. Swart, 18, who has been a top academic student every year from Grade 4 to 12, said she was planning to study data engineering at Stellenbosch University, Western Cape. “I am ready to have my results; I have been dreaming about it for a while,” said Swart. She said the 2022 academic year was very challenging since she was also in the leadership team (she achieved full colours in leadership) and she was also a deputy head girl. As she plans to pursue a career in data engineering, Swart said she was inspired by her father, Welhelm Swart, who is an engineer by profession. “My father motivates me; he always sends me videos showing the vast opportunities I can be exposed to when I study engineering, looking at how the world has changed and how technology is growing,” she said. Swart advised the matric class of 2023 to study hard and put in lots of effort to excel in their studies. Swart loves music and sports. Chingwena, also 18, said she planned to study a degree in actuarial sciences at the UCT this year. “I want to study actuarial science because I think it is very broad and I can get multiple skills. Not so many women are in that industry. I dream to make the world a better place for everyone,” said Chingwena. She said she was inspired by her parents, who moved from their country to live in South Africa and managed to provide for her. “I will not say I studied hard from the get-go; however, I used past papers from various schools from various years,” she said. She said in the 2022 academic year she achieved a lot because she was in the top 10 consecutively. She said her school was highly competitive. She was in the top 10 in all four terms. She advised the class of 2023 not to take other people’s experiences into their minds because some people were like, “matric is so hard”. “We confirm that all results are accurate and true, and that we received the necessary POPIA (Protection of Personal Information Act? to share this information with you. We are extremely proud to celebrate our matric students,” said Trinityhouse Randpark Ridge. The celebrations will begin at 8am on Wednesday, January 18.  The Star