Johannesburg - The National Freedom Party (NFP) has called for yet another round of stringent legislation on the ownership of pit bulls.  This comes after yet another victim died after being mauled by two pit bulls in Ga-Makgatho village outside Senwabarwana in Limpopo. It is reported that a 43-year-old woman, Melitta Sekole, was attacked by two pit bulls while walking in a residential area at around 5am on Friday, December 23. The pit bull owner was subsequently arrested following this incident. In a statement on Tuesday, NFP leader and member of parliament Ahmed Munzoor Shaik Emam said there has to be a ban or restrictions on the ownership of pit bulls as pets. The party said this would ensure that the attacks by pit bulls on humans are put to a stop following a number of incidents reported in the latter parts of 2022. "We have a dual challenge here. On the one hand, we need to urgently stop the attacks of pit bulls on humans. These attacks are often deadly and unprovoked. Research indicates that this is largely due to breeders breeding these dogs for aggression. One incentive for these breeders to do this is illegal dog fighting rings. "The other challenge is how we should regulate this particular breed to ensure there is less incentive to breed for aggression while owners are required to take complete responsibility for their dog and its actions," Shaik Emam said. Shaik Emam has also urged the Hawks and other law enforcement agencies to prioritise illegal dog fighting rings, which fuel the breeding of pit bulls by ordinary citizens who do not have the necessary licenses. "The NFP therefore calls on the Hawks to prioritise the stopping of illegal dog fighting rings. Research on other dog breeds that were historically bred for aggression and dog fighting, such as the English bull dog, showcases that once dog fighting is stopped for good, there would be less incentive to breed for aggression, and this can be seen in the less aggressive nature of the English bull dog, which makes great family pets," he said. "Our priority right now is to stop these attacks. Therefore, the NFP supports harsh and strict legislation in the short to medium term to ensure we radically decrease the number of attacks. In the long term, we need the Hawks to act swiftly against these illegal fighting rings, as that is the key to a long-term solution to the challenge of deadly pit bull attacks," Shaik Emam said. He said the NFP believes that there should be legislation that holds owners directly responsible for the actions of their dogs, as this will ensure that such incidents are curbed. "In addition, we need to ensure that there is a reporting system in place whereby pit bulls that showcase aggressive behaviour can be reported, and either the dog is confiscated and euthanised by organisations such as the SPCA or the dog and its owner are forced to undergo a mandatory training programme. "It is entirely unacceptable that we currently have no national legislation on this issue after we have seen such a sharp increase in attacks. People are dying. We need to act swiftly so that impact can be felt immediately," he said. The Star