Joburg - Police in Mpumalanga have made a massive breakthrough following the arrest of two male suspects who are alleged to be involved in incidents of ATM bombings and cash-in-transit heists (CITs). It is revealed that the province experienced several incidents where suspects attacked various business premises, mostly fuel stations, where explosives were detonated to get cash from drop-in safes and ATMs. The suspects are expected to appear at the Nkomazi Magistrate’s Court in Tonga today after they were arrested and found in possession of a pistol, some explosives and a large number of ammunition for rifles and pistols. Under the leadership of the Provincial Commissioner of the SAPS in Mpumalanga, Lieutenant-General Semakaleng Daphney Manamela, a team of experts was assembled to trace and arrest the perpetrators, leading to this breakthrough. The multi-disciplinary police team comprising the Ehlanzeni Crime Intelligence Task Team, White River Flying Squad, Tonga K9 Unit and White River K9 Unit nabbed two male suspects, aged 38 and 42, who are alleged to have been involved in incidents of ATM bombings or even CIT heists. “The team is working around the clock to effect more arrests. Police believe that the arrested suspects could have been responsible for a string of business robberies in areas like Tonga, Pienaar, Nhlazatshe, Acornhoek, Kanyamazane, Schoemansdal and Kamhlushwa. In one of the incidents, one person was killed during an ATM bombing at Kamhlushwa in October 2022.” “The two were cornered at Mzinti and Masibekela, near Komatipoort. During their arrest, a pistol with one magazine and 26 live rounds of ammunition, four live rounds of an R5 assault rifle, an explosive charger box, as well as explosive wires, were found in their possession. Police cannot rule out the possibility that the suspects might be linked to other cases and anticipate making more arrests as the investigation continues.” Manamela was overwhelmed by the breakthrough and applauded all members involved in the operation for their dedication to the fight against crime. The Star