The Patriotic Alliance (PA) was expected to announce on Friday if they would be leaving the ANC-led opposition alliance to join the DA-led Multi-Party coalition in the City of Johannesburg. Sources within the Multi-Party Coalition have told The Star that ActionSA has been spearheading negotiations with the PA on behalf of the Multi-Party Coalition for some time. The Star understands that the PA has been promised two MMC positions in Johannesburg and two MMC positions in Ekurhuleni. This would mean that the PA has four positions that have been offered by the Multi Party Coalition. It seems that the ANC-led opposition bloc was caught napping, with sources saying that the ANC had not been engaging the PA for some time about their stance in coalition politics of the City of Johannesburg. The ANC and other opposition parties have been running helter-skelter trying to ensure that the PA remains within the opposition bloc. It was not clear if they could beat the offer the Multi-Party Government had made to the PA. “The agreement is on principle. There are a few things that need to be sorted out, but the PA has been made an offer, and we are awaiting for them to sign on paper,” the source said. A spokesperson for the Multi Party Government, Corne Mulder, told The Star that the negotiations between the coalition and the PA were at an advanced stage. He said he was hoping the agreement would be signed by Friday. Meanwhile, Mulder said the Multi-Party Government would support a motion of no confidence against Colleen Makhubele, the Speaker of Council. He said should the PA join the DA-led coalition, it would assist in getting rid of Makhubele as the Speaker of Council. The Star understands that should the DA be successful in getting rid of Makhubele, there will be a mayoral committee reshuffle. “We hope the motion becomes a success. She was not meant to be where she is in the first place,’ Mulder said. Meanwhile, mayoral spokesperson Mabine Seabe told The Star that the mayor, Mpho Phalatse, was focused of running the City with other coalition partners. PA leader Kenny Kunene said the PA would not comment on developments at this stage. ActionSA also refused to communicate.