Johannesburg - When Jabulani “Sjava” Hadebe released his EP titled Umsebenzi  in 2021, his fans were left begging for more, and others hailed him for his consistency in delivering music that smoothly connects with people. This year kicks off with the award-winning star giving his fans a taste of his new music as he makes a return with a star-studded full studio album, Isibuko. As the name suggests, this album brings to light a deeply introspective side of the artist as he takes the listener on a journey of bare and raw emotions. “I feel good about the album; I am proud of it, it’s my work. It means a lot to me that I am still alive and that I am able to do this and continue with God’s work,” he said. The Eweni  hitmaker unpacks the essence behind the title Isibuko, which he says is all about reflection, sitting yourself down and asking yourself questions. “Why I titled it isbuko? It is because most of the songs are self-reflective. And then there’s Umuntu, a song that you need to sit down and listen to alone and ask yourself questions. It talks about your mistakes and self-doubts,” said Sjava. Speaking about some of the songs, he points out that Amavaka  describes how self-doubt and fear lead to self-sabotage, reminding us that we are often further along in our lives than the tiny voice of doubt in our heads would have us believe. While Thixo  is a haunting prayer, a plea to God to remain within his sight and grace, family relationships and hardships are vividly described and exquisitely delivered in Akabuye  and Kube ngangazi. Sad love songs, a genre that Sjava is well known for, are also well-represented on this album. Amanxeba  tells the long tale of the never-ending time it takes to heal from the grief of a failed relationship, and Grounding  describes a man’s longing to finally find true love, settle down, and start a family. But the love songs are not all sad, with Dudlu  and Iphisi  painting beautiful pictures of enduring love. Featured artists include long-time ATM collaborators Emtee (My Life, with Emtee Records’ artist Lolli Native) and Saudi (Ungavumi, Amaphiko), 1020 Cartel’s Anzo (Amavaka), and Maskandi heavyweights Shwi (Ithuna), Mzukulu (Isoka, Akabuye), Inkos’yamagcokama (Akabuye), and Dumakahle (Amakhehla). He also features the renowned Qwabe Twins (Isoka) and the highly talented singer/songwriter Mzulu Phaqa (Inhlonipho). The release of the 18-track album was announced by Sjava at his Live in Durban concerts (December 9 and 10 last year), where the audience was given a sneak peek into the project with a live performance of the song Amavaka, for which both Delayde and Webmoms travelled to South Africa for the performance with Sjava. The Star