Johannesburg – The Department of Correctional Services (DCS) said calm had been restored at the Boksburg prison in Gauteng after unruly inmates refused to allow authorities to confiscate cellphones and other contraband. According to the department, on Monday a group of inmates barricaded a sectional gate during a search for contraband. This was in retaliation to a mandatory search by the National Task Team of the DCS as part of its festive season security operation. The department said that it would not hesitate to take action against such behaviour. DCS spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo said inmates attempting to undermine the authority of the state knew the consequences they faced, and the department would never compromise the safety and security of other inmates, officials, members of the community, and service providers. “Proliferation of mobile phones and other contraband is a grave concern for the department, and these have to be removed from our facilities. Some of the images circulating via social media platforms emanate from inmates making a mockery of the correctional system,” Nxumalo said. Rubber bullets have been flying at Boksburg prison.. pic.twitter.com/w6oKeV9slL “This is a clear indication that the few unruly inmates who sought to prevent the searching exercise knew fully that they were hiding contraband in their cells.” Nxumalo said credit must be given to correctional officials for conducting themselves in an orderly manner in spite of the bad behaviour and provocation by some of the inmates. Nxumalo said the unruly inmates would be dealt with. “Those involved will be identified and corrective measures be taken against them. We remain committed to incarcerating inmates in a humane and secure environment. However, we will never tolerate the undermining of the Correctional Services Act by unruly inmates hellbent on continuing to unleash terror on communities and officials through acts of crime even when they are under lawful custody,” he said. Nxumalo said there was a reason why the justice system removed some people from society for the purposes of rehabilitation and correctional centres should not be a platform for people to entrench disrespect for the law and undermine the state. Nxumalo said the DCS was aware of comical acts by inmates captured on camera using illegal cellphones in an attempt to divert attention from deviant behaviour. “We will remove these contraband without fear and discipline those who possess and smuggle them into our facilities. The perpetrators have identified themselves through social media platforms, and their actions will assist in terms of the disciplinary processes. “A full-scale investigation will be launched, and the festive season security operation shall continue as per the schedule,” Nxumalo said. He said Section 32(1)(b) of the Correctional Services Act allowed for a minimum degree of force to be used, and the force must be proportionate to the objective. The Star