Johannesburg - Tourism Minister Lindiwe Sisulu said the tourism industry is central to economic growth and development and should be nurtured in such a way that it knows no racial, sexual, or any other stereotypical divisions. Sisulu encouraged South Africans to take advantage of the diverse tourism products, assets, and offerings, including the rich history of different spaces, to foster national unity and cohesion and to reject the stereotypes and practices that sought to deny anyone enjoyment of this country. "No racial group should take advantage of the industry to discriminate and act violently against any other racial group in indulging in any niceties presented by this industry," Sisulu said. Her comments come two weeks after a video clip shared on social media captured part of the incident at the resort, where two boys were allegedly racially abused. It depicted white men ordering a black teenager out of the water, then hitting or shoving him back in, grabbing a child by the throat and pulling his hair as the fracas escalated. One man was also seen holding a youngster under the water. Three suspects were subsequently arrested and are all out on bail. The incident happened at a resort outside Bloemfontein in the Free State on Christmas Day. "This has tarnished tourism in the country," said Sisuliu. On Saturday, Sisulu met Brian Nakedi, his wife, and son to apologise on behalf of the South African government for the incident. "I am sorry that during our leadership, your family experienced such discrimination. We apologise that we as a government couldn’t protect you from such people," she said. The minister has also offered psychological help for the family. Sisulu said any racial tendency has to be isolated and exorcised by the players in the industry, who are very committed to ensuring the economy and this sector thrive. "Tourism provides us an immediate communication platform to sell to the world the beautiful nation we are and our commitment to become a prosperous destination full of offerings for the visitors," said Sisulu. The Star