NOXOLO MIYA  noxolo.miya@inl.co.za There was a deadly start to the year on South Africa’s beaches after several people lost their lives on New Year’s Day and in the days leading up to it. The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) said on Monday that there were multiple incidents on New Year's Day and incidents leading up to the New Year at Wilderness, Strandfontein, Gordons Bay, Plettenberg Bay, Mossel Bay and Port Alfred. “We are appealing to coastal bathers and shoreline anglers to be cautious, and bathers should only swim at beaches protected by lifeguards and swim in the safe swimming areas lifeguards post using their red and yellow flags,” the NSRI said. According to the statement, several people have lost their lives in the coastal area. In Wilderness on December 28, George Municipal lifeguards recovered a body at Victoria Bay after a surfer had alerted them of a body he had come across in the water while surfing. The body was identified and confirmed to be that of a 26-year-old Zimbabwean man who had been reported missing at Victoria Bay on December 27. “George Municipal lifeguards, NSRI Wilderness, and George Fire and Rescue Services had searched extensively the day before, but the man had only been confirmed to be reported missing later,” the NSRI said. In Kalk Bay on December 30, the NSRI Simonstown duty crew responded to Kalk Bay Harbour, where a man was reported missing. “An extensive search revealed no sign of a man who had gone missing in shallow water at a beach adjacent to Kalk Bay Harbour,” the NSRI said. “The body of an adult male, believed to be from Valhalla Park, was located and recovered by police divers onto an NSRI rescue craft and brought to the NSRI Simonstown rescue station, where the body was taken into the care of government forensic Forensic Pathology Services.” In Plettenberg Bay on January 1 at 7.15pm, the NSRI Plettenberg Bay duty crew responded to the Piesang River braai area following reports of a drowning in progress. “An NSRI Plettenberg Bay rescue swimmer recovered an adult male from the water, where cardiopulmonary resuscitation efforts were commenced by NSRI Plettenberg Bay medics ... After all efforts to resuscitate the man were exhausted, sadly he was declared deceased,” the NSRI said. In Mossel Bay on January 1, the NSRI Mossel Bay duty crew was alerted just after 5pm to reports of a drowning in progress at the Great Brak River Mouth at the lagoon. “Mossel Bay Fire and Rescue Services, SAPS and ambulance services reported the child out of the water and extensive Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation efforts were exhausted before sadly the child was declared deceased.” In Kenton-On-Sea on January 1, two young girls had been washed onto the beach, where bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation efforts were in progress. NSRI Port Alfred medics, Gardmed ambulance services, Eastern Cape EMS, Ndlambe Fire and Rescue Services, and the SAPS were in attendance, as well as uMhlanga and Durban lifeguards who are on holiday at Kenton. They also assisted at the scene, where extensive CPR efforts were under way for both girls. “While on the scene it was noticed that a female was in difficulty in the surf. NSRI Port Alfred rescue swimmers recovered the girl from the beach, where CPR commenced her. After all efforts to resuscitate the three females, aged between 10 and 14, were exhausted, sadly they were declared deceased,” the NSRI said. In Muizenberg, a Dutch kite boarder adult male was critically injured after it appears the man had being airlifted in to the air while kite-boarding and he had landed in the car park area at Sunrise Circle Beach, Muizenberg. "Cape Medical Response (CMR) and Netcare 911 paramedics conducted extensive cardiopulmonary resuscitation efforts on the scene before the man was then transported to hospital by CMR ambulance while CPR continued in the ambulance and on arrival at a hospital," the NSRI said. Sadly, the Dutch man was declared deceased at a hospital after all efforts to resuscitate him were exhausted. The NSRI conveyed condolences to the families of the deceased. The Star