Johannesburg - Makhelwane Festival is more than just about the entertainment experience; the popular affair aims to develop and drive township tourism and further create sustainable platforms for young creatives and entrepreneurs across Gauteng. The festival was once again presented by the creatives at LoCrate Market, connecting neighbours and communities through local small and medium enterprises and entrepreneurs. It ran at the weekend from Thesis Lifestyle in Soweto and Poka Street in Orlando West, with business talks and a night market experience. Perfect Sunday was given over to artists and musos who delivered stellar performances live at Poka St, Orlando West, with renowned artists such as Langa Mavuso and DJs Lula Odiba and Thabo Phalatse as well as Themba Lunacy. This year the festival incorporated a food carnival, a music festival, an arts and crafts fair, a movie screening, street dining, a bubbly garden, exhibitions, entertainment for kids, a market run entirely by children and a series of business talks. Co-organiser Sifiso Dlangamandla explained the significance of the event further, revealing that LoCrate was able to create a platform for small businesses. “This year’s festival is a tribute to all the highly influential individuals that were lost during the Covid years, important people who created the foundation for platforms such as these. This year, LoCrate was able to create a platform for more than 100 small businesses to trade for free. They also pay homage to legends like Dr Desmond Tutu, Wandile Nzimande and Lebo Malepa of Lebo’s Backpackers. “It aims to give Sowetans and visitors an aerial view of local amenities, spanning youth-owned businesses and new dope spots to check out. The organisers have hand-picked unique new and old spots people can visit in Soweto. This will be done through a bike ride with Wandile Zondo of Thesis, which is the oldest township-based lifestyle apparel brand.” The festival is a subsidiary initiative for township products, where LoCrate aims to develop and drive township tourism and further create sustainable platforms for young creatives and entrepreneurs across Gauteng. It looks beyond domestic tourism, but the idea is to encourage visitation from people outside of Gauteng and South Africa. The Star