Johannesburg - Miss SA 2022, Ndavi Nokeri, has been revealed as one of the front-runners at this year’s 71st edition of the Miss Universe pageant, according to polls on social media. The coronation night is set to take place on Sunday, January 14, at the New Orleans Morial Convention Centre in Louisiana, where Harnaaz Sandhu of India will crown her successor at the end of the event. South Africa is one of the leading pageant countries in the world and has had a remarkable track record at the Miss Universe pageant in the past five years. Nokeri, who arrived in New Orleans last week after spending an exciting few days in New York, says: "It has been wonderful meeting my fellow contestants face-to-face and getting to know them. My preparations are on track, and I’m working hard. Zozi Tunzi has given me advice that I have taken to heart—to be confident and to be my authentic self." "I also appreciate the wonderful support from all South Africans. I will be flying the flag high when I walk onto the Miss Universe stage, and I am determined to give it my all, just as I did when I entered the Miss South Africa pageant," said Nokeri. Nokeri has a proudly South African support team in New Orleans rooting for her, including Miss South Africa Organisation CEO Stephanie Weil, creative director Werner Wessels, and her parents, Moses and Betty Nokeri. Contestants from 84 countries will face off in the competition, which will be hosted by Jeannie Mai and Miss Universe 2012, Olivia Culpo. Mai is an American television host and stylist, best known for her work on the makeover show How Do I Look? and last served as a backstage correspondent during Miss Universe 2014. Culpo last served as host during Miss Universe 2020. Miss Universe 2018 Catriona Gray and entertainment reporter Zuri Hall will serve as backstage correspondents. This marks the first time in the pageant’s 70-year history that there has been an all-female presenting panel and will also be the first edition of the pageant to be held under the ownership of the Thailand-based JKN Global Group, which purchased the Miss Universe Organisation rights from WME/IMG last year. The pageant will be broadcast live on 1 Magic (DStv Channel 103) from 03:00 on Monday, January 15, and repeated in a prime time slot (details to be announced). The Star