Johannesburg - ActionSA president Herman Mashaba has reiterated his party’s position regarding their push to introduce legislation to put an end to the exploitative outsourcing practices by government departments and entities. Mashaba said this would include compelling government departments to perform feasibility studies and financial impact assessments before outsourcing any core functions of a permanent nature, such as security guards and cleaners. “In our 2021 Local Government Election Manifesto, ActionSA promised to pursue the insourcing of security guards and cleaners in all the municipalities where we would be part of government. This is a programme that would see outsourced or third-party contract workers absorbed by municipalities where feasible and practical. “This is an initiative that was pioneered by the administration I led in 2017 as executive mayor of Joburg, in which 4 185 security guards and 1 879 cleaners were absorbed by the City,” said Mashaba. Setting his sights on 2024, he says if they do get to Parliament, they will push for legislation aimed at limiting outsourcing only to instances where these services cannot be performed by government departments themselves or where there is a legitimate reason why outsourcing would better serve the residents. “ActionSA held a meeting with affected security guards and cleaners in Braamfontein to outline steps that will be taken by the ActionSA Joburg Caucus to advance insourcing. This includes the tabling of the motions calling for another round of insourcing, subject to the necessary feasibility studies. “We are pleased that the meeting was attended by over 1000 people,” added Mashaba. He said workers had the opportunity to provide detailed accounts of the difficulties they faced while working for City of Joburg entities through labour brokers. “This includes the non-receipt of payslips as part of their employment, while others do not receive consistent wage and salary payments. These are just a few of the list of complaints of unfair labour practices and exploitation they face,” said Mashaba. He said as part of ActionSA’s social justice programme, they remained committed to advancing the cause of insourcing security guards and cleaners by state entities.  Mashaba also said they would ensure that, as part of the multi-party government in Gauteng, they work with coalition partners to see the insourcing programme through and restore the dignity of workers. The Star