Johannesburg - Renowned American music producer Quincy Jones has announced the exciting launch of his global music streaming platform Qwest TV, set to premiere on January 20 on DStv channel 330. The channel is set to give music fanatics high-end music content, featuring jazz, soul, blues, hip hop, R&B, Afrobeats and dance. Qwest TV is a celebration of unique talents, traditions and rhythms which will give viewers exclusive access to music acts, concerts, documentaries and never-before-seen archived interviews. Its services include three premium linear television channels (in seven languages with global rights), ad-supported video on demand (in seven languages with global rights), a subscription video on demand platform (available globally in three languages), and DStv (channel 330) pay-TV for Africa. Founded in 2017 by Jones, alongside TV and music producer and programmer Reza Ackbaraly, Qwest TV plans to bring genre-agnostic musical content to the African continent. "We are elated to be part of the Multichoice family and to launch Qwest TV in the African market. We are expanding our mission to offer high-end music to everyone. Africa is a land of traditions and music, and we’re very happy to build such a great partnership on this gorgeous continent," said CEO Reza Ackbaraly. "I’m so proud to announce that Qwest TV is now available on Multichoice, Africa’s leading entertainment network. This means that my friends in South Africa and forty-three more African territories will have access to great, genre-defying music 24/7.  “From African legends proudly proclaiming their heritage to jazz, classical, electronic and amazing deep-dive music documentaries, Africa is the source of music's heartbeat and the cradle of modern music. I'm looking forward to celebrating diverse sounds with y’all!," said Jones. With the core focus of expanding the content offering for viewers with quality entertainment, Georginah Machiridza, executive head for general entertainment channels at the MultiChoice Group, added on the importance of such partnerships. "What is key to us is that, whilst our audiences are driven by an appetite for home-grown content, we also complement it with the best in international content. To this end, we work with a selection of partners to ensure a comprehensive one-stop shop for our customers. Our partnership with Qwest TV is one we are thrilled about, and we cannot wait for our DStv customers to experience it," said Machiridza. Music lovers will now be able to access Qwest TV via the DStv bouquet (channel 330) as well as on the Showmax platform. The Channel will be included in all the DStv packages in 44 countries across the continent. The Star