Tshwarelo Hunter Mogakane Pretoria - Political analyst Dr John Molepo has advised Limpopo Co-operative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs MEC Basikopo Makamu to open a case of defamation, to disprove claims that he had sexual relations with a woman purported to be a radio presenter. The sex claims rocked Makamu this past weekend when WhatsApp conversations between two women appearing to be fighting over his affections were leaked via social media, in the process implicating the MEC in the unfolding sex scandal. Among the allegations are that Makamu gave the purported presenter R50 000 for shopping. Molepo said the social media scandal reflected badly on the Limpopo provincial government and the ANC, which deployed Makamu to his post as MEC. “The ANC has just returned from its conference and January 8 celebrations with President Cyril Ramaphosa reiterating his stance on the renewal of the party and the professionalisation of public service. This leaves no room for government leaders to be embroiled in any scandal that may taint the image of the public portfolios they hold. “MEC Makamu has distanced himself from the claims, which is to be respected, but if he is certain that he did not engage in any untoward behaviour, he should open a case of defamation to clear his name,” Molepo said. Molepo further urged public office bearers to be careful when conducting their private affairs. “We are certainly not saying the rumours are true, but this is a warning to leaders of society to be careful about how they behave because things done in the dark always find their way to the light. “In this case, the ANC should protect its image by gathering facts from Makamu himself to put the matter to bed. “Otherwise, the unproven rumours have the potential to hang like a dark cloud over the party’s honourable deployees,” he said. Makamu has maintained his innocence, saying those linking him to the scandal sought to tarnish his image. His spokesperson, Hitekani Magwedze, said the MEC is already seeking legal advice on how to deal with the allegations implicating his name. “The MEC explicitly distances himself from these images coupled with the allegations and wishes to state that it is not him in these photos. “This is an attempt at tarnishing his good name, and as such he is rightly seeking legal advice on the matter,” said Magwedze. Limpopo provincial government spokesperson Ndavhe Ramukuela said there was no need to comment further because the office of the MEC had already issued a statement on the matter. Pretoria News