Johannesburg - His goal of one day becoming a renowned programmer provided the incentive for a Forte Secondary School matriculant to strive for academic excellence. The driven Kelebogile Pitso worked hard consistently throughout the year. And it paid off. He was named in Gauteng’s top achievers list for obtaining more than five distinctions, obtaining five distinctions in maths, life orientation, business studies, life sciences and physical sciences. He said that although his examinations were tough at times, he had kept his eyes on the ball. His academic merit landed him a spot in one of the best maths and science programmes, Kutlwanong. “I was chosen to attend in Grade 11. That’s the second time they chose me (I had turned down the opportunity when I was in Grade 10 because I was afraid of the pressure and extra work.) Although I arrived later in 2021, I worked towards being one of the best learners,” said Kelebogile. “My family kept praising me about how well I did last year as I was waiting for my results. I, like my peers, was nervous about how we performed, seeing as it was the national, final examinations. They kept telling me about the life-changing opportunities that would arise due to my excellent results, such as bursary and award opportunities. That was the best support that I could ever receive. Whenever I’d panic, I’d remember what they had said about me and think positively.” Having applied to the University of Johannesburg to study computer sciences and informatics, Kelebogile said he planned to help people, like those in Africa, who struggled to adapt to a world dominated by technology. “I yearn to be the best programmer, specialising in coding and software engineering, since I share a great interest in IT and its vast positive impact… I also yearn to be an independent animator, creating my own animation content and art, and sharing it across social media. I made it my ambition to follow in the IT field, so that I can also... help people in disadvantaged situations,” he said. The Star