Mpumalanga- Another suspect linked to the murder of a councillor in Mkhondo, Mpumalanga, last week has been arrested. According to a statement by the SAPS, a team assembled to investigate the killing arrested a 40-year-old suspect on Monday. The police say that the suspect is from uMbumbulu in KwaZulu-Natal and was taken in for questioning and ultimately charged with murder. Councillor Sbonelo (Mthembu) Ntshangase (36), Sandile Khumalo (51) and Sizwe Mbingo (40) were gunned down in a shooting at the Longhomes Township in Piet Retief on Friday, 13 January 2023, at around 8pm. SAPS provincial spokesperson Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said that it was alleged that the suspects fired multiple shots at Ntshangase, who was in the yard and also shot Mbingo inside a bakkie, who sadly died at the scene, while Khumalo was shot in the yard as well. Thereafter, the suspects fled in an unknown direction. “The police in Piet Retief, as well as the paramedics, were informed about the incident. Whilst Mr Ntshangase and Mr Khumalo were privately taken to a nearby hospital, Mr Khumalo was unfortunately certified dead on arrival. Meanwhile, Mr Ntshangase regrettably succumbed to his injuries moments later.” said Mohlala. SAPS say a case of three counts of murder was opened, and a dedicated team of experts in the field of investigation was immediately assembled by Provincial Commissioner Lieutenant General Semakaleng Manamela. According to SAPS on Tuesday, two male suspects had been arrested, and an automatic rifle with ammunition was confiscated. Manamela urged members of the public, including families and colleagues of the victims, to remain calm and allow police the space to investigate and bring all perpetrators to book while allowing due processes of the law to take their course. "We have always stayed true and committed to our call of duty that of preventing crime, and when crime has been committed, we are obligated, in terms of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, to investigate and bring perpetrators thereof to book. “We still need support from members of the public regarding further details which may assist in the investigation to come forth. We promise to treat such information with much delicacy," she said