Johannesburg - The Boksburg tanker explosion has claimed yet another life, bringing the death toll to 38 since the horrific December 24, 2022 accident. The latest news on the increase in the death toll has been confirmed by the mayor of the City of Ekurhuleni, Tania Campbell, in a media statement yesterday. Campbell said the City is investigating the cause of the accident in its quest for justice for the affected families who lost their loved ones during the explosion. “On December 24, 2022, a LPG tanker exploded in Boksburg, which to date has claimed the lives of 38 people.  “The City is exploring its legal options to act against both the company that owns the truck and the driver. We are of the opinion that there is sufficient evidence to do so. More information in this regard will be communicated in due course,” the mayor said. She said that once the investigations are complete, they will act without fear or favour to ensure that justice is served. The mayor has also sent her condolences to the families who recently buried their loved ones in the face of an ever-increasing death rate on South Africa’s roads. “We will show no fear nor favour in holding those responsible to account. I want to take this opportunity once again to pass on my sincere condolences to everyone who has suffered as a result of this tragedy, and offer my thoughts and prayers to the families who have lost loved ones,” the mayor said. The 32-year-old driver was released before he was due to appear in court after police said there was not enough evidence against him to warrant his arrest. His release was met with protests from political parties such as Azapo, who decried his release as being unfair to the families of the victims. At the time of his release from custody, the death toll stood at 18. It has nearly doubled, with the death toll now at 38. The mayor said that there have been too many theories reported on the explosion and has called for responsible reporting to spare those who have lost loved ones from further pain, and avoid spreading rumours and unfounded allegations. “There are numerous theories as to what happened on the day circulating in the media and on social media – many of which have not been factually verified and are tantamount to hearsay,” she said. She said progress is being made to finalise the report that will clarify issues. “Since the day of the explosion, various departments in the City have been working tirelessly to ensure a thorough investigation to ascertain what happened on that day and the way forward. “Today I had a meeting with members of the mayoral committee (MMCs), the Chief of Police, various heads of department, and senior officials to get feedback on the status of the investigation,” Campbell said. “I am pleased with the progress that is being made in this regard and expect a final report to come to the mayoral committee this month, which will be presented to the council,” the mayor said. The Star