Johannesburg - Mbali Hlongwane, 18, also known as Mbali Vibes, was named the winner of the Smirnoff 1818 Shaya Ingoma Female DJ Search 2023. The glorious moment happened months after a heated competition from Mzansi’s talented female DJs, who battled their way to the top 10 in mid-December. For the finale, the public had to vote for their favourite and Hlongwane captured the audience’s hearts with her energetic performance. Speaking about the experience, she said she was pleased to emerge victorious, explaining that the experience was incredible. “This has truly been an amazing experience, and it was fantastic to meet such a phenomenal range of DJing talent from across the country. I am humbled and really honoured to emerge as the winner of this year’s competition. “Thanks to Smirnoff 1818 for providing a platform such as this to unearth and profile Mzansi’s top-tier female DJ talent,” says Hlongwane. The gruelling selections were done by three esteemed judges: DJ “Pruluv” Prudence Mathebula from Metro FM, a renowned DJ in her own right; DJ Slender “The Dancing DJ” from KwaZulu-Natal; and the godfather of South African house and kwaito music, the legendary Oscar Mdlongwa, known as Oskido. Mbali Vibes received over 6 million votes from the public, placing her at the top of the competition. Her prize package includes R50 000 in cash, R50 000 in DJ equipment, a trip to the Miami Winter Music Festival 2023 valued at more than R300 000, three months of PR profiling to build her profile nationally and internationally, opportunities to DJ at a Smirnoff event in 2023, and the title of Smirnoff Shaya Ingoma DJ winner. Each of the other Top 10 finalists did not walk away empty-handed either, as they received R25 000 in cash, DJ equipment worth R15 000 each and PR profiling. Other top 10 contenders included Katleho Mokhethi (Bina Binnz), Nonkululeko Peaceful Sikhosana (Lekouh_S), Samkelisiwe Zondo (LadyS Sam), Tintswalo Moira Mabaso (Moira the DJ), Nomali “DjNomali” Mokoena, Botlhale Baitsiwe (Nia Brown), Nompumelelo Buthele.  The Star