NOXOLO MIYA  noxolo.miya@inl.co.za  With most schools around the country set to reopen soon for the 2023 academic year, there is excitement among learners who look forward to making new friends and having new experiences. Children need to be reminded about safety protocols when arriving at and leaving school. With many parents working, school transfers, au pairs, and lift shares are very common. However, it is not always easy for the school to keep track of how children are arriving or leaving, so parents need to reinforce some basic safety protocols. Charnel Hattingh, Fidelity ADT’s Head of Group Marketing and Communications, has advice that can help increase peace of mind. This is particularly relevant following the spate of kidnappings that were reported in the country last year. Children who travel to and from school with lift clubs: If your child is getting picked up at school, either by yourself, an au pair, or a lift scheme, always tell them to wait inside the grounds for their lift to arrive. They must never leave the premises to go and look for their ride in the street. Make children cautious of random pick-ups from “family friends”: Remind your children that you would not send someone they don’t know to fetch them. Children should never get into a stranger’s car, even if that person claims that someone they love is hurt and that they were sent to pick them up. Consider using a password system: Your child will then know that the correct person is collecting them and who they can trust. Notify the school if there are any transportation changes: Parents should always notify the school if there is a change in transportation arrangements so they can manage the situation and alert the child. Tell your children that if a stranger approaches them in the parking lot, they should not talk to them, no matter how friendly they may seem. If someone tries to grab them, they need to fight, kick, and scream to alert others of the danger. For children who walk to and from school: Children who live close enough to school to walk home, they should ideally always walk to or from school with a friend or friends. If your child walks alone, it’s a good idea to ask a teacher or other parents if they know of other kids in the area who do the same. Some areas have started “walking buses”, where local parents volunteer to walk to and from school with a group of schoolchildren to assure their safety. Stick to the streets you know and never take short cuts through unfamiliar or quiet areas. In some cases, when parents are working all day and domestic helpers may not be around all day, children have to keep themselves occupied until mom and dad return home in the evening. “It is extremely important that the kids know not to let anyone into the house without your permission. If you are going to be late, let your children know as soon as possible and give them an idea of when they can expect you to be home.“ She also suggests drawing up a list of important telephone numbers: “This list must include emergency services, mom and dad’s work, and cellphone numbers. Save it on your child’s cellphone and stick it on or near the landline. It’s also important to explain to them when these should be used,“ said Hattingh.