Johannesburg - In 2022, South Africans saw an impressive list of celebrities stepping out of their comfort zones and showing various styles that did not only accentuate the glamorous side of fashion, but also showcased extensive creativity. We take a look at some of the stars who made daring fashion statements on red carpets, turning social media into a frenzy. With a slew of events and affairs enticing local celebrities to dress to the nines, here is a list of celebrities who got the stamp on the socials. Bonang Matheba If there is one thing that Bonang Matheba is widely known for, it is understanding the assignment and fully delivering exceptional looks that will get everyone talking. The Miss SA 2022 red carpet was no different as the renowned media personality stepped out in a bold red dress that featured a high slit and accessorised her glam with gold earnings. When she made her debut in her first look for the pageant, she left tongues wagging on the internet and also left many hailing her majestic fashion sense. Matheba also stole the show in May in Lagos, Nigeria, as the host of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards. Queen B, as she is affectionately known, took the stage, showcasing a slew of outfits that placed her among the trends on Twitter. The Hollywoodbets Durban July saw local celebrities bring out their A-game, but some were identified as the cream of the crop. Mihlali Ndamase In April, Ndamase attended the launch of Real Housewives of Lagos and left people talking. The content creator dazzled in a royal blue dress, finishing off her look with short, tinted hair. Thuli Phongolo Local mega-stars were summoned to follow the theme "show me the honey" at the Hollywoodbets Durban July event. The event marketer Ken Tweddell highlighted that the fashion programme aims to draw contemporary influences every year. "When conceptualising the annual theme for the Hollywoodbets Durban July, the intention is always to provide a varied and challenging subject to inspire fashionistas when creating their race day ensembles," he said. Renowned actress and DJ Thuli P is enlisted among those who looked at the affair. When her photos made it to social media, people could not stop talking. Her structured gold gown was a true work of art for the DJ, who carried it with total confidence. Sithelo Shozi The DJ’s Instagram account paints a picture of how much she looks the part; even in casual ensembles, Shozi always goes the extra mile. She instantly topped trends after revealing her maxi body-hugging dress which she featured with a pixie hairstyle at the event. Zola Nombona and Lasizwe Dambuza were also hailed for always being part of creatives who understand that fashion is not just about attending an event, but also about making a statement. The Star