Johannesburg - The endless chatter about the cross-over song has become a tradition in SA, and this year was no different when “Ngekhe” by the popular music group Big Nuz was announced as the top-voted song on Ukhozi FM. To honour and acknowledge Mandla "Mampintsha" Maphumulo's contribution to the entertainment industry, his friends made a call to have people vote for “Ngekhe” following his untimely death. The popular radio station, which has over 7.9 million listeners, confirmed the success of the song, revealing that among many artists vying for the number one spot, Big Nuz ft. DJ Yamza rose to victory. DJ Tira was one of the artists who rallied behind the success of the song before the New Year's celebration. At his emotional memorial service, he spoke fondly about working with Mampintsha and also vowed to assist his wife, Babes Wodumo, in claiming her spot as the Gqom Queen. Maphumulo was 41 when he died after suffering from a stroke. "It is with great sadness that we share the news of the untimely passing of the multi-award-winning artist Mampintsha. Born Mandla Maphumulo from Umlazi, KZN of Big Nuz fame passed on today, 24 December," Afrotainment confirmed his death. The Gqom artist had been a household name over the past decade and built his name solidly as he collected many accolades in the entertainment space. Since his passing, all who knew him have spoken about how passionate he was about music and ensuring that many people get to hear and see his talent. His remaining group member, Mzi "Danger" Mkhwanazi, said though he is not a talkative person, he was saddened by the passing of the group members who he had been working with. "We were not talkative in the group. If you look at R. Mashesha, Mampintsha, and me, we preferred to stay studio and make music. We are thankful for the support that you gave us from day one until now. I also want to thank you, Tira, Afrotainment, and all the people that have worked with us." He went on to discuss their most recent song, "Ngekhe." "We argued a lot about Ngekhe with Mampintsha. Those who work with us know. It is hurting that all the soldiers are gone. At first, it was R. Mashasha, and it is Mampintsha." He vowed to keep the legacy of the Big Nuz alive by doing more and growing the name into an empire. “Ngekhe” had already been making waves on various radio stations and television music channels. DJ Tira also praised Mampintsha, saying that working with him was always a pleasure because he knew exactly what he wanted as a creative. "You could say Mampintsha was a prophet because sometimes he would say things that did not even cross my mind. Mampintsha taught me that if you believe in something, focus on that thing and make sure it happens. So our friend is gone; we are going to cry, but we hope that his spirit lives in us, and we have work to do," said DJ Tira. The Star