Johannesburg - With scenes of chaos and frustration being the order of the day on the first day of the new school term for the academic year 2023, Gauteng's shadow MEC of Education, Khume Ramulifho, said he and his team conducted their own oversight visits to some of the province’s adversely affected schools. The team’s visit to Soweto and other parts of Gauteng coincided with Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga’s monitoring of schools in Cosmo City and Diepsloot on Wednesday, where scores of parents whose children were yet to be placed complained about the online registration system. Ramulifho said the failure of the department of education to place all learners on the first day of the school term was regrettable. "It is regrettable that the Gauteng Department of Education failed to place all learners who applied timeously before the new academic year started today. "A high number of learners were unable to start school today because the department has failed to place them on time," Ramulifho said. He said wherever the party visited, they were greeted by scenes of parents in desperation, as they were frustrated by the lack of space in some of the schools, as well as the dilapidated infrastructure at some of the schools. Ramulifho also added that there was a big infrastructure backlog that the department of education needed to resolve to contain overcrowding. This was also acknowledged by the Minister of Basic Education during her first stop at the Cosmo City Primary School, who said overcrowding undermines efforts made by the department for quality public education. "During our oversight, we observed many parents queuing in search of space for learners. Equally, the DA has been inundated with calls and emails from parents desperately looking for space. "The lack of completion of infrastructure projects compounds the problem. One example is Braamfischer Primary School, where the contractor left the site in October last year. As a result, learners are overcrowded, with more than 60 learners in a class. This school should have been completed in 2020 to accommodate more learners who are still without school. The DA said it wants MEC Matome Chiloane to commit to placing the more than 2000 learners said to be without schools before the end of the week. "The DA urges the MEC to prioritise placing all learners and allocating resources to overcrowded schools. Any further delays will only aggravate the education challenges in the province. The learners and parents of Gauteng deserve a responsive and caring government to expedite the resolution of admissions and school readiness." Ramulifho said the DA would continue to monitor developments regarding interventions to place all learners. This is after Motshekga promised to deal with the backlog and placement of learners within ten days of the new academic year. The Star