Johannesburg - The Gauteng Department of Education has announced that all learners who applied for the 2023 Online Admissions applications have been placed in various schools in Gauteng. Some parents have raised safety concerns about other school placements, one of the matters that the department is expected to address later today. “We have been hard at work to increase capacity in high-pressure areas through various means to ensure that all learners are placed accordingly.” “As of Monday, 30 January, only 176 Grade 8 learners in Tshwane West are to be placed. This remnant emanates from an initial 223 unplaced learners within our district, of 47 learners have since been placed at Amandasig Secondary and are currently attending class on a rotational basis.” “Subsequently, these 176 unplaced learners will be placed at a new satellite registered as North Park Secondary School. These learners will start attending class from Monday, 6 February 2023.” “In our Ekurhuleni North District, the initial 232 unplaced grade 1 learners in Olifantsfontein were placed in Olifantsfontein Primary School, where the capacity has been increased. Olifantsfontein School received a total of  11 additional mobiles, of which 8 mobiles are currently being installed to accommodate learners who are being taught in the school hall.”  “Of the initial 501 unplaced Grade 8 applicants in Kempton Park, 106 were placed at schools with available space. The remaining 395 learners were placed at a satellite school registered as New Kempton Park Secondary School.” The department also revealed that the parents of the unplaced learners in Kempton Park put forward safety concerns about the vicinity of this satellite school and are consequently refusing this placement. “Regrettably, despite this concerted effort by the department, parents of the unplaced learners in Kempton Park raised safety concerns about the vicinity of this satellite school and are consequently refusing this placement. However, engagements with the MEC are scheduled for Tuesday 31 Tuesday at 17:00. We appeal to these parents to accept this placement.” “In our Johannesburg West District, of the initial 434 Grade 8 applicants that were unplaced in Roodepoort, 38 learners were accommodated at schools where capacity has been increased. The remaining 396 learners were accommodated at a satellite school registered as Robinhood College in Maraisburg. Teaching at the school is expected to commence on Wednesday, 1 February 2023.”