Johannesburg - As the ANC prepares to host its 111th celebration, the question on everyone’s lips is whether the Dr. Petrus Molemela Stadium in Bloemfontein is ready to host the bash. This after the City of Manguang in the Free State initially said it was not ready for the celebrations.  But in an about turn on Monday, the city said it was now ready to host the big event which kicks off on Thursday and ends on Sunday, when ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa is due to deliver his January 8 statement. "Mangaung Metro is ready to host the African National Congress for its 111th birthday celebrations at Dr. Petrus Molemela Stadium on Sunday, January 8, 2023. “This gives the city an opportunity to showcase our capacity to host different kinds of major events. "This we have seen during the 2010 World Cup, its (ANC) centenary in 2012, and the recent SA vs. Wales tour, among others," read the latest statement from the metro Earlier, the municipality had raised questions about the city’s preparedness after Mangaung's acting city manager, Tebogo Motlashuping, in a statement dated December 21, 2022, flagged a series of concerns including adequacy of ablution facilities, and compliance issues. Motlashuping added that several infrastructure issues would render the stadium non-compliant. He also lamented that the city could not afford to put remedial measures in place in time for the ANC's birthday celebration. "This report seeks to advise the event owner on the shortfalls at Molemela Stadium in preparation for the ANC January 8th event. "The facility accommodates a total of 15 500 attendees, which should include, amongst others, hawkers, staff, etc. "The accommodation figures will further be reduced when the stage is erected, as that part of the stadium will be regarded as non-usable. During the assessment or inspection, the following shortfalls were identified that could render the stadium non-compliant," Motlashuping said. Management said at the time that all the toilets had been vandalised, the stadium did not have an electrical or fire certificate, and the lifts were non-functional. This is in stark contrast to the latest statement which allays fears about the stadium’s readiness: "Following reports about the state of the stadium to host the event, the city would like to put it on record that the concern is misplaced. Work has been ongoing to ensure that the issues that were raised are attended to. "It is important to note that the stadium was initially the home ground of the Bloemfontein Celtics, which played a role in the maintenance of the facility. As soon as the Celtics were sold and relocated, the stadium was open to use by members of the public for recreational purposes. As a result, there are certain areas that needed the city’s attention, which have since been attended to," the management of the stadium said on Monday. Speaking to SABC news, ANC Interim Provincial Committee spokesperson Oupa Khoabane said the party was ready for its January 8 statement. "We got the facilities that are needed so that we can have a successful rally. Things like toilets (we) will try to procure mobile toilets and ensure that we have water available. “ So there’s no way the that we cannot have the event there. So that’s what we are working on. To ensure that we have things that the stadium does not have, so that we can have a successful rally," Khoabane said. The Star