Johannesburg -  Man of the moment Xolani Khumalo and his team have been praised for their crime-busting efforts with their new show, Sizokthola, which debuted among the top trends on Sunday. This past Sunday, Moja Love, the channel known for reality television shows such as Uyaphuza, Mamazala, After Tears, Pap Geld, and Uyajola 99, trended for all the right reasons when the channel debuted its new reality television show, Sizokthola. This is a show that tackles crime and the drug trade, which have become two of the leading causes of the country’s ever-increasing crime and drug problems. The show, presented by Xolani Khumalo, debuted on Sunday evening and immediately became a hit with the viewers, who celebrated the show’s crime-busting efforts in a country riddled by crime and drug problems. On an almost a daily basis, we hear and read of drug dealers servicing their clients in broad daylight, sometimes with the involvement and knowledge of the police, in places such as Sunnyside, Hillbrow, Berea, Yeoville, Gugulethu, Cape Flats, and other places dominating crime and drug abuse. This week's episode saw the presenter and his team venture into the heart of Sunnyside, Pretoria, to confront drug dealers. The area is notorious for Nigerian and other drug dealers plying their trade there. The brave team from Sizokthola  uncovered drugs and a stash of money during their visit there. The show’s hard stance on drugs and crime has been endorsed by Gauteng Premier Panyaza Lesufi, who also recently launched his own anti-drug campaign against nyaope. "I’ve since instructed my communication and marketing teams to immediately sponsor this show. This is not television, but the nation’s call," Lesufi wrote on Twitter. The head of publicity at Moja Love’s Siyaya TV has confirmed that they are working on a possible partnership with the office of the Premier, who has indicated his support for the show following the first episode. "He (Lesufi) watched the show and tweeted that this is the kind of content that he would like to associate with. We couldn’t be more excited that the Premier sees the work we do in our communities. We want to make a difference. We are currently exploring a partnership with the premier," the channel’s spokesperson, Nonzwakazi Cekete, said. Cekete said the channel prides itself on delivering content that reflects the lives and experiences of ordinary South Africans, adding that Sizokthola is yet another such offering from the channel. "Moja Love prides itself in delivering content that echoes with the communities we serve. It is always a great feeling to get feedback because it gives us an opportunity to evaluate where we can continuously improve." She said the channel was inspired to produce this kind of television content due to the high rate of crime and drug trade in the country. "The crime rate in the country is alarming, and we see what drugs are doing in our communities. We couldn’t turn a blind eye to the reality of what is happening in our society as a channel that mirrors what is happening in our communities," she said. The Star