Johannnesburg - A University of South Africa (Unisa) first-year student from Limpopo, Mahanyele Machete, is running out of time to prove that he did not cheat during his online assessment in the June/July 2022 exam period. He says seven months after the university began its investigation, he still did not have the forensic report on the allegation. This, he said, had derailed his plans for the second semester as well as for the academic year 2023, set to begin next month. Machete who has written numerous letters to the college of accounting, administrators, and lecturers, said he had been sent from pillar to post regarding the investigation that the university was said to have conducted on him since May last year, when he was accused of having cheated. A frustrated Machete said this came after he was informed that his IP address had changed when he attempted to complete an online assessment of one of his modules, FAC1501. “The university alleges that I plagiarised and cheated on two assessments that I completed online. They said that my computer’s IP address changed when I completed the two tests on different occasions. Each assessment had two-timed attempts. I am told that my IP address log changed to Johannesburg, which I do not understand because I reside in Ha-Mulima Village in Limpopo," Machete told The Star. Machete, who denies the allegations, said that the university claimed that he had someone complete the assessments on his behalf. He said the issue of the change in IP address is beyond him. “The IP address log issue is beyond me and can only be addressed by my service provider, as I do not know much about it, which is why I requested the university conduct a forensic investigation. Now I find myself in an unpleasant situation. Now all I want is to expose the negligence and poor administration at Unisa, specifically within the College of Accounting Sciences and the Student Communication Centre. “I am being wrongly accused of plagiarism. I denied the allegations in writing and subsequently requested an investigation into the matter by the university,” he said. He stated that after sending numerous emails in an attempt to follow up on the said investigation, he was told that it would take six months, but even after seven months, he said he had not been informed of the progress of the investigation, which in turn had resulted in his marks for the module being frozen. “A senior lecturer told me on August 10 through the telephone when I enquired that the investigation can take up to six months. And now, seven months later, into a new academic year of 2023, I have not received feedback on the outcome of the investigation.” “The most unfortunate thing is that they changed my grades on the two assessment tests to zero, thus resulting in me failing the module (FAC 1502). This also meant that I could not enrol in my second semester major (FAC 1601) because I did not meet the pre-requisite,” he said. Machete, who self-funded most of his first year and relies on good Samaritans for extra funding, said this had resulted in him losing out on potential sponsors. “I lost potential sponsors amongst them a KPMG bursary and an A2A Kopano Incorporated bursary, respectively. This took place at a time when Saica raised concerns about Unisa’s accounting science qualification. I am being helped by a good friend who helps fund my studies, and now I am suspicious in their eyes. This really hurts me,” he said. In response to the The Star’s query, Unisa said: “Please note that internal matters of this nature are handled in line with relevant university policies and regulations applicable to the management of student affairs; and are not addressed through public platforms. To this end, and where necessary, the university will communicate directly with the affected student.” The Star