Johannesburg - The National Mineworkers (NUM) Highveld region has confirmed having met Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan over the Eskom crisis. The meeting follows hot on the heels of a recent march to Luthuli House, which was organised by the Democratic Alliance (DA) in relation to the energy crisis. It also comes on the heels of the ANC’s legotla this week, where the ANC resolved to declare load shedding a national disaster. The meeting took place on Friday, January 27, 2022, with discussions focusing on the power crisis and sabotage at Eskom. NUM regional chairperson for the region Thapelo Malekutu said the union had submitted comprehensive and detailed plans for Gordhan to consider in his turnaround strategy for the embattled and troubled power utility. "Num, which is the majority trade union at Eskom, submitted a very comprehensive and detailed plan to the minister on how we believe we can defeat load shedding. The union is a pragmatic trade union that believes in collective efforts that should bring a permanent solution to the load shedding problems," the union said. The union said there were many spectators and critics who offered no tangible solutions to the energy crisis. "Unlike other spectators that we are seeing on a daily basis, who are parading as energy experts yet do not bring any solutions to the table, wee have no doubts that a permanent solution could be found. However, we must continue to hold the minister accountable at all times, as opposed to those who shout from the roofs, in places of comfort and tranquillity, but do not bringing solutions to the table," Malekutu said. He said some of the issues raised in their meeting with Gordhan were to hold those responsible for the collapse and sabotage at Eskom accountable, including those who continued to sell substandard coal to the utility. "State capture played a vital role in collapsing Eskom, in that during the years of state capture, several Eskom Units were not serviced. The cabal and remnants of state capture created a mess, and we are also aware that there's a pushback from beneficiaries of the state capture," he said. The Star