Johannesburg - South Africa’s popular and much-loved youth ensemble, the Ndlovu Youth Choir, is set to showcase its special musical artistry in the “America’s Got Talent: All-Stars”  competition in Los Angeles with an exemplary performance. Ndlovu Youth Choir returns to this prestigious stage as one of the most beloved and memorable contestants from the thousands who were part of the competition. The performance will be broadcast on NBC starting at 8pm Eastern time in the USA on Monday night. Local fans can catch a glimpse of the Ndlovu Youth Choir performance on Tuesday, after the NBC broadcast. They can also tune into YouTube, Twitter, and Facebook on Tuesday morning after the broadcast. With more than 70 local renditions of “Got Talent” produced across Europe, Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, Africa, and the Americas, “AGT: All-Stars” brings together 60 of the most extraordinary contestants from across the globe for one of the toughest competitions. “The best of the best returned to the stage to showcase their talent,” said AGT judge Simon Cowell. The choir was offered the opportunity to choose a song from their colourful repertoire. “Ideally, a song that best shows off their singing and dancing talents, but also resonates with sharing a positive message with the world. ‘We Will Rise’ was their immediate song of choice. Written by Ralf Schmitt and the choristers, it’s an original song written to inspire South Africans while celebrating our South African spirit of resilience,” said Schmitt, the Ndlovu Youth Choir’s artistic director. The group reveals that they were selected as one of the top 60 acts of all time on AGT. “This is a major accomplishment that we are incredibly proud to add to the choir’s list of recent achievements, including reaching number one on iTunes, releasing our third album, titled ‘Grateful’, and recording ‘Harmonious’ at Disney’s Epcot Centre in Florida, USA,” added Schmitt. The Ndlovu Youth Choir has played sold-out performances across Europe and appeared on many local and international television and radio shows. They have collaborated with many esteemed artists such as Master KG, Sun-El Musician, Pink and Kygo, and performed for the likes of Trevor Noah and Bill Gates. In the last quarter of last year, the Ndlovu Youth Choir performed on its first national tour, which was a sold-out success. Since its inception in 2009, the Ndlovu Youth Choir has become one of South Africa’s most treasured choral groups and is also recognised globally for its special musical arrangements, vocal talents and infectious energy. The Star