Johannesburg - The 55th ANC National Conference, which resumes its abandoned programme from last year in a hybrid format across the nine provinces, will not discuss the Phala Phala farm scandal. This was revealed by newly-elected secretary-general Fikile Mbalula during a state of readiness update held at Luthuli House on Tuesday. The ANC is set to conclude and finalise some of the outstanding matters that were left unattended after the party adjourned the 55th conference, which will take on a hybrid format on Thursday, January 5, 2023. Scattered all over the country’s nine provinces in a hybrid format, the outgoing transport minister said it is expected that more than 4 000 delegates will take part in the conference, which will also see the ruling party mark its 111th anniversary via the January 8 statement to be addressed by ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa on Sunday. Delegates from the party’s commissions have been meeting behind closed doors to discuss pertinent issues, which are now expected to continue when the 55th conference resumes on Thursday. Mbalula gave an update on the party's state of readiness as of January 8 during an address at Luthuli House just two days before the resumption of the conference programme across the country. He was in the company of the party’s first deputy secretary-general, Nomvula Mokonyane, and its second deputy secretary-general, Maropene Ramokgopa. Mbalula said the conference will not entertain any discussions on the Phala Phala farm scandal, adding that only the reports and other related matters will be discussed. “On the Phala Phala report, there will be no report at the conference. We are entertaining two issues at the conference to finalise. It will be the reports from the commissions and constitutional amendments that will be the business of the second leg of the conference. The issue of the Phala Phala report was referred to the national executive committee. “As you know, there are important milestones in relation to this matter. There was a motion in Parliament that was defeated. There are members of the ANC who voted with the opposition, and their issue in terms of that particular matter has been referred to the national disciplinary committee. “The national disciplinary committee will deal with that particular matter and will be seized with this matter because these are members of the ANC who have defied the mandate of the national executive committee,” he said. The Star