Mpho Mukosi At just 20-years-old, Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) student Mulamuleli Tshitangano is already an award-winning author. She said that writing was a vessel through which she could express her emotions, especially through poetry. She said that she started writing in primary school, and the first poem she wrote was honouring the late president Nelson Mandela. "As young as I was, I knew that writing was what I am destined for, but I did not think that one day my poems will ever get the opportunity to be published and read by other people," said Tshitangano. The young writer said that she struggled a bit initially as there was no one to help her with the basics of writing. This resulted in Tshitangano going on a journey of self-education as even a local writer rejected her pleas for mentorship. "Still, that did not stop me from doing what I love," she added. Tshitangano kept on writing until she met another author, Thuso Mathebe, who helped her get all her work published. Her breakthrough came in 2021 when she got her work published with the working title "I Shall Find Light." Last year she got an opportunity to get her second book, “Beauty With Scars” published, which she says was an attempt to correct the societal mindset about women and children. "It is a book about women's empowerment, gender-based violence, the upbringing of women, as well as venturing into love life as well as student lives by means of exposing them to different environments they may come across in different universities," she said. Tshitangano stated that in October of last year, she was given the opportunity to attend the AYIMUN (Asia Youth Conference Model United Nations) conference in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The passionate women's rights activist was given the opportunity to speak to UNICEF about the importance of humanitarian assistance for children during wartime and to present her work. "AYIMUN is a conference that empowers the youth and also teaches them delegation skills, negotiation skills, leadership skills, as well as the ability to apply critical thinking skills. It is a platform for all the youth around the globe as its main purpose is to tackle the challenges that the world is facing," said Tshitangano. She has won awards in her short-story career, including the Global Honoree Award 2022, which was held in July last year, the MAMA Provincial Award as the Best Writer, which was held in September, the Kadzukupi Recognition Award, and she was a semifinalist for the African Literature Awards 2023 as a novelist. She said that her wish was to see her work distributed to major libraries all over South Africa. "As young as I am, I never thought that I would ever make it this far, and I am so proud that my dream became a reality and that other people are reading what I have written. I would also love to encourage all the youth out there that they should always believe in their dreams," said Tshitangano. The Star