Johannesburg - Nuclear Medicine Specialist Dr Ntanganedzenu Muambadzi has committed to creating job opportunities for young people as many of the youth in marginalised areas bear the brunt of high unemployment. In conversation with The Star, Dr Muambadzi talks about her journey, how it all came to be, and how she continues to be a force to be reckoned with in her field of work while also changing people's lives. She says being the only black female specialist in Limpopo is pleasing, but it requires one to put their head down to acquire gratifying results. "Initially, I did not want to do medicine. I actually had a bursary, and I was supposed to go and do chemical engineering at Wits University, and on the day of registration, everything was paid, so I thought about it. I decided I wanted to go and do medicine. So I dropped everything, and rushed off to apply for medicine." "You need to be really consistent with what you are doing, and you have to love what you are doing. If you love what you are doing, then it will never feel like you are working. So that motivates me a lot to work harder. I don't even feel like I am working. I am just enjoying what I am doing," explained Dr Muambadzi. "After finishing my studies, I went straight back home. I was the first and only one in the field. I was happy that I came back home because many people needed services but were driving long distances to get these services. I mean, it is not good to be driving to just get a scan, or to get treatment. Health should be essential and should be a necessity to be right there. You shouldn't have to travel. So it was not easy being the only one, being female, and being black." Asked about the response to all the work she has been doing, she says it has been a pleasing journey, particularly with many appreciating her work. "The response is quite varied, but it comes with burnout and working a lot, asking myself if people are really appreciating my work and what I am doing for them. In the long run, it really improves the health care of most people, especially in under served and rural areas," she said. She further reveals that her work has been progressive and that she has managed to offer many young people jobs in varied fields. It's going strong. It's growing. "Right now, we have 20 employees, including the legal team and the accounting team. So we are grateful. I have employed a lot of youth." She says they are also expanding to Tzaneen to offer the same services and the same opportunities for young people. Dr Muambadzi also has a medi-spa, Dr NM Medi Spa, which she believes will help people not only look better but also feel better. "We are trying to do a lot to tackle youth unemployment on this side because we realise that the government cannot do this alone." The Star