Johannesburg - The Gauteng Department of e-Government has awarded a full bursary to one of the province’s top achiever matriculants.  Former Madiba Comprehensive School learner Tebogo Mohutsioa has made the country proud with his outstanding achievement after obtained seven distinctions in his final exams with the highest marks of 97% in technical science and 93% in technical maths. Yesterday (Mon), a ceremony was held at the learner’s school in Krugersdorp on the West Rand to honour him, and MEC for e-Government and Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Mzi Khumalo informed him of his Department of e-Government bursary.  Also in attendance was musician Nhlanhla Mafu and ANC’s deputy secretary-general Nomvula Mokonyane. The department said that the bursary would cover Mohutsioa’s full tuition fees, books and accommodation at a learning institution of his choice.  Among other things, he was also given a laptop to assist him in furthering his studies.  The top achiever expressed his interest in Information Communication and Technology- related studies at one of South Africa’s top universities.  It is due to his choice of study that the department,  as  the leading agent to implement ICT in Gauteng government departments,  took an interest in assisting Mohutsioa to achieve his dreams.  Following this studies, Mohutsioa will be given an opportunity to pursue an internship with the Department of e-Government so that he is given a strong foundation in his career.  “It humbles me to see learners coming from township schools doing well. Such achievements reflect that public schools are on the same level as our private counterparts. I am proud of Tebogo Mohutsioa’s achievement. Through this bursary,  he (can) continue to further his studies and achieve greater things,” said the MEC. Mohutsioa expressed his gratitude and urged young people to work hard and achieve the best results they can even if they are studying at public schools.  “I worked hard to achieve the best results. I want to make my family and my teachers proud. I will be pursuing technology-related studies because that is where my passion is,” he said.  The Star