Johannesburg - The highly anticipated Joburg Film Festival will kick off its extravaganza with XALE, a thought-provoking film by Moussa Sene Absa. The festival will present some of the finest films from over 35 countries across the globe, including 20 African premiers and 27 South African premiers, from January 31 to February 5 at various locations across the city. Film fanatics can immerse themselves in films from Tunisia, Brazil, Seoul, the USA, Japan, Morocco, and more, with a mix of feature films and documentaries showcasing stories that cross cultural boundaries. The first film, XALE, follows Awa, a 15-year-old African schoolgirl who is enjoying adolescence alongside her twin brother, Adama, who wishes to travel to Europe. This Senegalese feature takes viewers through a storyline of family values, love, life, and betrayal. Tumi Masekela, executive head: corporate affairs, MultiChoice South Africa, speaks about the essence of the Joburg Film Festival, stressing that telling stories reflects them as an organisation. "As a truly African brand, MultiChoice is proud to once again be partnering with the Joburg Film Festival. Telling stories is part of who we are as an organisation, and this partnership will serve as a platform where storytellers come together and give a renewed light to African storytelling," said Masekela. It is revealed that to positively highlight the contribution of the arts, culture, and creative industry in strengthening the nation's brand, Brand South Africa has teamed up with the Joburg Film Festival, which is an important platform for sharing South African stories and capabilities in the film industry. "We believe that is important to strengthen the film and entertainment industry and shine a spotlight on one of South Africa’s key strengths as a creative hub on the continent by showcasing Africa’s capabilities to produce world-class, high-quality, and authentic stories from Africa to the world.  “The film is a powerful platform that enables us to tell our stories and export them to the world at large in order to raise awareness and shape conversations to celebrate our successes and bring about change where necessary. "In addition, the South African film industry is a significant contributor to the growth of the economy through job creation and sustainability, skills development and transfer, and increased employee and household income.  “It is a sector that simultaneously promotes the country and contributes to its prosperity," says Mpumi Mabuza, acting chief marketing Officer at Brand South Africa. Festival screenings will take place at Ster Kinekor Sandton (Sandton City Mall) and Maponya Mall (Soweto), Cinema Nouveau Rosebank (Rosebank Mall), The Bioscope (Maboneng), and Theatre on the Square (Nelson Mandela Square). The Star