Johannesburg - Miss SA 2022 Ndavi Nokeri says she is looking forward to returning to South Africa to complete her reign and her advocacy campaign after making it to the top 16 at the 71st edition of the Miss Universe pageant. The 23-year-old, who hails from Gabaza in the Greater Tzaneen area of the Limpopo province, represented South Africa against contestants from 84 other countries in the competition. Nokeri was one of the frontrunners throughout the build-up to the finale. Nokeri has also paid tribute to Miss Universe winner R’Bonney Gabriel from the US, and offered her congratulations to runner-up Miss Venezuela Amanda Dudamel and second runner-up Miss Dominican Republic Andreina Martinez. Nokeri was brimming with pride after making it to the top 16 of the competition. Says Nokeri: "I would like to congratulate R'Bonney, who is a worthy winner and is going to be a wonderful Miss Universe. I want to thank everyone for their wonderful support, and I am proud of what I have accomplished. “I know that I gave it my all, and the Miss Universe experience will be something I will never forget. I am looking forward to returning to South Africa to complete my reign and my advocacy campaign, Ed-Unite. "Obviously, I would have liked to go further, but I am delighted to have made it into the Top 16 of the competition. The whole experience has been beyond my wildest expectations, and it has been a true journey of the sisterhood." Miss Universe is one of the longest-running and most-watched beauty competitions in the world, having started in 1952. It is broadcast in 165 countries and seen by more than half a billion people annually. Says Stephanie Weil, CEO of the Miss South Africa Organisation: "We are incredibly proud of Ndavi and how she represented both us as an organisation and the country on the world stage.  “We believe she did South Africa proud and her performance was remarkable from start to finish. We look forward to welcoming her home, where her Miss South Africa journey will continue." During her time as Miss South Africa, Nokeri launched her highly successful advocacy campaign, Ed-Unite. She has always been passionate about equal educational opportunities, and at her crowning in August, she pledged to help ensure an equal playing field for all learners. Nokeri had a proudly South African support team in New Orleans cheering her on, including Miss South Africa Organisation CEO Stephanie Weil, creative director Werner Wessels, and her parents, Moses and Betty Nokeri. The Star