ANITA NKONKI anita.nkonki@inl.co.za The countdown has begun for the highly anticipated Miss Universe 2022 pageant, which will have hopefuls from different countries across the globe contest for the coveted title. The reigning Miss SA, Ndavi Nokeri, has also jetted off to the prestigious 71st Miss Universe pageant that will be held at the Ernest N Morial Convention Centre in New Orleans, Louisiana, US. In a video she shared on her Instagram account, she expressed how elated she was to be going to the US. "I am finally on my way to Miss Universe. I am currently at the airport, and we are hitting it off. I am so excited. Thank you so much for all your love and support. I am literally feeling you guys with me. I can't wait to tag you along for the journey." Nokeri explained the essence of being part of the pageantry, revealing that she has always felt like Tsonga people were under-represented. "From the very beginning of my Miss South Africa journey, I always wanted people to know that I was standing up for Tsonga people because, growing up as a child, I felt as if we were under-represented. At the same time, we have incorporated the fact that I'm both South African and African; this is so beautiful because I've come to learn that as Africans, we are more alike than we are different thanks to our shared experiences and values. It is a proud moment for me to make all Africans feel seen, understood, and represented. "This year we wanted the national costume to have a distinctly African feel. We love the fact that Ndavi is proudly Tsonga. It is at the very core of who she is, and so part of the costume is inspired by her Tsonga culture, and it is beautifully represented in the choice of use of fabrics. "The wings showcase the flight and represent something ascending because African women in the world are busy rising. We are seeing this in so many pop culture moments such as The Woman King and Wakanda Forever," said Nokeri. Ndavi advocates for equal education and has recently launched her Ed-Unite campaign, aimed at raising funds for infrastructure and facilities in schools, scholarships, bursaries, medical and menstrual hygiene support, as well as sports and training. "It was a no-brainer for me to return to Limpopo and help learners from my home province, thanks to the initial monies raised by my Ed-Unite campaign. We will be visiting more schools in other provinces in the new year. I have to thank Forever New and our partners, the Imbumba Foundation, who are making such a difference on the ground. Period poverty is another barrier to education for girls in indigent communities. By tackling this, we are helping bridge that gap," said Nokeri.