Johannesburg - Entrepreneur and renowned film-maker Thapelo Mokoena has added another offering to the list of products in his repertoire by introducing another business venture, Bakoena Beard Care. Mokoena says as someone who has taken pleasure in experimenting with scents, textures, and products, he decided to embark on an experiential journey to create authentically African products to cater to the unique needs and textures of African hair and skin. "Over the years I have received so many requests for grooming tips, I often even get asked if my beard is really grey or whether I’ve dyed it. Truth is, the majority of my family is grey-haired, so I too have greyed naturally, and while I can attribute a lot of how my beard looks to genes, my understanding of the facial hair journey and having access to the products I’m now introducing to the world have also played a huge role," said Mokoena, founder and  CEO of Bakoena Brands. "Grooming is a very important part of the African man’s daily routine, and Bakoena Beard Care was developed for the modern African man who is looking to enhance that trendy bearded look." This solution is an assortment of products ranging from hand-blended beard oils to beard wash and beard butter, providing an innovative addition to Africa’s beauty and grooming landscape. To fulfil his vision, Mokoena reached out to award-winner Jared Hines, who owns Hines and Harley, a male grooming parlour, and has more than 17 years of experience specialising in skincare and aromatherapy. He says it was Hines’ expertise in hair and skin that made him the perfect partner to help bring Mokoena’s brainchild to life. With a significant amount of time and care spent on curating the product names and packaging, the Bakoena Beard Care offering is inspired by the diversity, culture, and heritage of Africa. The beard wash and oil products come in two aromatic offerings that are named Maseru Sky and Magazine Mountain, paying homage to Mokoena’s Basotho and Zulu lineage. "I have spent almost the past 20 years championing and being an ambassador to international grooming and care brands, so instead of partnering with another grooming or beauty brand, I decided to create the type of products that specifically cater to our African people. It’s time for an African force to take over," Mokoena said. Everything about these products represents a part of my childhood and upbringing, from the textures to the scents of the products. Bakoena Beard Care has that quintessential scent that is very familiar to most African men and was essentially developed to give one the feeling of home. Our tagline is For Real G.O.A.Ts." The Star