Johannesburg - The innovative global competition, Red Bull Doodle Art, where art and technology meet to empower a new generation of artists, makes an exciting return, inviting creatives to showcase their crafts. In this competition, participants let their minds wander, draw casually, and explore spontaneous creations that happen when pen meets paper and the imagination runs free. In this “phygital” experience involving both the physical and digital domains of art, the national champion will be invited to the world final in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, where the 2023 Red Bull Doodle Art winner will be chosen by a panel of prominent experts. The application window is now open until March 11, 2023. In South Africa, Red Bull Doodle Art will host a series of workshops at application events around the country, including in Cape Town, the Eastern Cape, KwaZulu-Natal, the Free State, Pretoria, and Johannesburg, where participating students and creatives will put pen to paper to see where their imagination takes them. The South African national final will see the work of regional finalists displayed in an exhibition open to the public at a curated event in Cape Town. From those, a panel of experts will choose the winner based on the criteria of creativity, artistic skill, and the way the doodle expresses a love for life. The winner will work with a professional artist to prepare an exclusive doodle non-fungible token (NFT) to represent South Africa at the World Final in Amsterdam. Participants can also submit their doodles digitally or on the official Red Bull Doodle Art frame, which can all be downloaded and submitted at www.redbulldoodleart.com. "The experience as a winner was out of this world; travelling to San Francisco to meet other creatives and create art in a virtual form was mind-blowing. I learned so many things, such as communication skills and different cultures that affect design. Overall, I learned 'how to be me', how to be unique, to challenge myself and defeat the norm," said South Africa 2017 Red Bull Doodle Art winner Sabastien Pillay. From May 25 to 28, 2023, the World Final will bring together all the national finalists globally for a three-day experience in Amsterdam. This will feature workshops, exclusive "phygital" creative sessions, a public gallery, and the announcement of the global winner for 2023. The Star