Johannesburg - Thokozani Ndlovu, fondly known as L’vovo Derrango, has shared comforting moments with fans and industry friends after making his first appearance since it was announced he had been hospitalised due to a minor stroke. Ndlovu shared a joyous video on Instagram, where he was singing along to Mampintsha’s song Ngekhe, a song that won the hearts of many listeners as the song of the year on Ukhozi FM. The Bayangsukela  hitmaker also penned a heartfelt tribute to Shimora, highlighting that there was a lot that he learned from him. Scores of fans have since flocked to his Instagram page to wish him well as the world celebrates the start of the new year. The entertainer was announced to have been hospitalised shortly after Mampintsha’s untimely passing last month. They confirmed that he was admitted to the hospital after suffering a stroke in Ndwedwe, KwaZulu-Natal, during his music performance. "This is a public notification to the media, event promoters, fans, and all relevant stakeholders by Derrango Records on behalf of the multi-award-winning artist by the name of Thomozani Sphamandla Ndlovu, also known as L’vovo Derrango. L’vovo Derrango suffered a minor stroke during his performance at Ndwedwe on the 23 of December 2022. He is admitted to the hospital for medical attention, and he is responding very well," read a statement. A few hours after this was made public, rumours circulated on social media claiming that L'vovo Derrango had died. His team later dispelled the despicable rumours, revealing that he was alive and well. "This is a follow-up public notification to the media, event promoters, fans, and all relevant stakeholders by Derrango Records on behalf of the multi-award-winning artist by the name of Thokozani Sphamandla Ndlovu, also known as L’vovo Derrango. This notification serves to dispel the trending rumours that he has since passed. This is untrue and grossly hurtful to his family. He is still hospitalised and making excellent progress. You are kindly urged to desist from spreading harmful rumours. Please respect the privacy of L’vovo and that of his family." The Star