Johannesburg - Multi-award-winning artist Asanda Mvana, fondly known as Msaki, has left her music fans gloomy after announcing she is stepping away from the glare of publicity. The “Ubomi Abumanga” hitmaker spoke about the detriment of being a celebrity, revealing that some opinions do put a strain on her. "Please also understand why I have to leave this space. Please release me. I may seem weak because I let this get to me. But I am sensitive, sentimental and an empath (this is my most valuable creativity tool), and my skin is not thick... It is porous, so I feel the changes in the breeze. I'm moved quickly and deeply, and I understand this may be abnormal. I don't expect everyone to understand, but I know some of you get it." "The same sensitivity where the songs come from ... (I) can't handle this callous badgering and normalisation of bullying. Allow me to take my leave for my wholeness. Please remember me as the one who said, 'We are not meant to take this, even if it comes with the territory." Msaki expressed gratitude for the love and support, particularly for ensuring that people bought her music. "I just want to thank everyone for this incredible outpouring of love and support. I wanna thank my day ones that are still with me that bought my first album in advance and gave me my independence." She further urged people to be kind and refrain from pushing others to the edge. "I stand for them as I leave. We need to love more. Please don't push people to the edge and only have empathy after they become static. Be kind to my colleagues; we are just people. We need more gentleness and grace for each other. Please, can we change?" "I'm excited to honour my remaining commitments and will share my final gig guide. My team will continue to use my pages as a noticeboard. I will design a space where I can connect with the real ones more intimately over time.  “I will miss you, the jokes, the wrong versions of my lyrics, and the memes. You have been so kind to me most of the time. Pray for me to have the energy I need to close well. I thank you all and will always attempt to write and sing better. This is my calling, and I remain devoted to it," said Msaki. The Star