Johannesburg - As we have just stepped into the new year, President Cyril Ramaphosa has conveyed a message to South Africans that includes plans to tackle some of the burning matters in the country. This includes ending the load-shedding crisis, curbing unemployment, fighting corruption and creating more safety. “It is a time for fresh starts in a number of aspects that affect our lives and for making resolutions to do things better. It is also a time of hope – hope for a better life for ourselves and for things to become better for the country that we all love.” “2022 has been a difficult year. It is a year during which South Africans continued to endure the hardships that have given rise to unemployment, poverty and persistent inequality. On top of all this, we have had to deal with the rising cost of living and an energy crisis. We have also been burdened by the loss of loved ones to several tragedies.” Ramaphosa shared his thoughts and prayers with all families following incidents that claimed lives and destroyed livelihoods. “There have been devastatingly tragic events that have destroyed both lives and livelihoods. These events have included floods, fatal vehicle crashes, deaths in taverns, dam wall collapses, drownings, fires in informal settlements, and most recently, the terrible explosion of a fuel tanker in Boksburg in Gauteng that killed at least 34 people.” “A number of young men have lost their lives during the summer initiation season, turning what was meant to be a time of joy and celebration into a time of sorrow. Our thoughts and prayers are with all the bereaved families. May the Lord embrace and comfort all families who suffered loss as a result of these tragic events.” He said that with all that has happened this past year, South Africans must remain optimistic and have hope. “For hope does spring eternal in the human breast.” “Much as we are going through a stormy phase in the life of a country, storms do eventually pass. Two years ago, when the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, I said that we would overcome. And we have. The Covid-19 pandemic no longer determines how we live our lives. We have been able to shelter society’s most vulnerable from its worst effects. Our economy is growing again and is now larger than it was before the pandemic.” He said over the past year, about 1.5 million new jobs had been created. “The Presidential Employment Stimulus, which has provided opportunities to more than a million citizens, is growing and thriving. We are improving the business’ operating environment and attracting new investment. “We are undertaking reforms in the operation of our ports and railways, and our telecommunications, water and electricity sectors.” He further revealed that they were working hard to end load shedding. “We are working hard to end the crisis of load shedding. We are increasing the amount of renewable energy on the grid. The benefits of this work may not be immediately felt, but we should expect that these efforts will steadily reduce the need for load shedding until it is no longer necessary.” “By working together, we can and will rebuild our country. We can and will improve our economy and improve the lives of our people. Wherever you are at this time, I wish you a happy, prosperous and peaceful new year.” The Star