Johannesburg - Calm was restored late in the afternoon in the Joburg CBD on Monday after chaotic scenes, including the pelting of stones at SAPS vehicles, were witnessed after a 28-year-old man died amid a search and seizure operation. The public was warned to avoid Nugget and Mooi streets, and motorists were advised to avoid the protests by taking alternate routes. Protesters barricaded Commissioner Street with burning tyres and debris at Goud Street. According to eyewitnesses, a man whose identity has been withheld decided to “swallow his stash of drugs” and died. All hell broke loose after tenants staying at a residential building protested over the death, accusing police of being responsible. Police conducted a raid around 2am, and reports suggest that the man ingested drugs with the aim of hiding them, and he later died. His death sparked violent protests where protesters used stones and other objects to attack police officers driving to the scene. SAPS spokesperson Colonel Dimakatso Sello confirmed that police are currently monitoring protests after the man died. “It is reported that the police were conducting a search and seizure operation at one of the buildings in the CBD when the victim fell and collapsed. The community started protesting; they barricaded the road with burning tyres and rocks, alleging that the police killed the victim,” Sello said. She said an inquest docket was opened. “The cause of death is unknown at this stage pending autopsy results. An inquest docket is opened for further investigations,” Sello said. She said 13 people were arrested for public violence. “The police warn members of the public not to take the law into their own hands and let the law take its course. Any criminal activities can be reported on the police Crime Stop Line at 08600 10111 or anonymously on MySaps application. All information received will be treated as strictly confidential,“ she said. The police did not want to be drawn into the issue of the nationality of the protesters after some people alleged that they were foreigners. JMPD spokesperson Xolani Fihla said the situation was volatile and advised motorists to stay clear of the area where protests took place. “We received reports that police vehicles were being stoned by protesters. Motorists are urged to use alternative routes,“ Fihla said. South Africans took to the social media app Twitter to express their feelings about the protest. User Ian Cameron wrote: “You can't cry police brutality when the police use force against you after you threw stuff at them. You deserve what you get. “I don’t get it, you are in South Africa illegally and you have the audacity to throw stones at the @SAPoliceService for doing drug raids in JHB CBD? So not only are you a criminal yourself, you are promoting further criminal behaviour.“ Another user #FreePalestine wrote: “Time for president Cyril Ramaphosa to send all foreign nationals back to their countries. Only we South Africans can abuse our police and still get arrested, but foreigners get away with it.” The Star