Johannesburg - The president of the Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru), Zizamele Cebekhulu-Makhaza, says that the tide must turn on unemployment, with the government leading the charge in creating jobs. As the state of the nation address draws closer, he reminded citizens of President Cyril Ramaphosa's words during his speech that "we all know that government does not create jobs — business creates jobs." "The President simply believes that it is the government’s responsibility to create a conducive environment for the private sector to grow, access new markets, and hire people. I would argue, however, that this represents an abdication of government’s responsibilities and duties in leading a developing nation and that it is indeed the current administration’s role to create employment for its citizens — beginning with relinquishing its failed neoliberal policies," said Cebekhulu-Makhaza. He stated that while Ramaphosa has blamed rising unemployment on low economic growth, low levels of investment, and an unreliable power supply, he believes the current situation is related to Neo-liberal macro-economic policies. "Notably, the recent medium-term budget policy statement (MTBPS) revealed that government is still adamant in following its draconian fiscal austerity fiscal measures. No society can be sustained with these harsh austerity measures, which is why we need to adapt our policies," he added. Cebekhulu-Makhaza added that the National Treasury is obsessed with reaching its target of a primary fiscal surplus over the next financial year and has projected 3.3% average annual growth in the compensation of public service employees until the 2025/26 financial year, while the government is projecting CPI inflation of above 5% over the medium-term. "This underscores the increasing pressure that austerity will be placed on South Africa’s working class and public servants. The current administration has been aggressively advancing these Neo-liberal policies, and workers are suffering as a result," said the union leader. Cebekhulu-Makhaza says that this cannot continue and that the government must adapt its policies to strengthen the country’s fiscal position, adding that macroeconomic policies should ease financial conditions and improve the resilience of consumers. "The government needs to increase investment opportunities, drive potential growth, and create jobs. Unilaterally implementing a 3% wage hike for public servants is simply not the answer," he said. The Star