Johannesburg - St. Stithians Girls’ College, class of 2022 matric, Sarah Varghese, has always been a strong academic achiever, but her focus during high school saw her improve from a B average in primary to an A+ in her final year of school. The winner of the school’s Dux Scholar, artist, and Gold President’s Award recipient initially struggled with physical science, but it ended up becoming her favourite subject due to the time and effort she put towards the subject. Varghese said that maintaining a positive attitude helped her cope with academic challenges, especially in the demanding matric year. This paid off as she obtained eight distinctions in her final exams, with a 91.7% average in her final report. She was named an Outstanding Achiever by the IEB, ranking within the top 5% of candidates nationally in six or more subjects. The top achievers' strength doesn’t just lie in the classroom. Varghese enjoyed sports from a young age and even benefited from an international hockey exchange opportunity to Mount St. Mary’s School in the UK in her Grade 9 year. She also participated in swimming, cross-country, rugby, and Saints Striders (a walking club open to any student, no matter their fitness or skill level). She said staying active helped her relax between study sessions and maintain focus on her goals. Furthermore, Varghese has an appreciation for and skill in the performing arts. She achieved a distinction in the Royal Academy of Dance (RAD) Advanced Foundation ballet exam and is currently pursuing the RAD Advanced 1 ballet syllabus. She also plays the keyboard, has completed the London College of Music Grade 6 electronic keyboard syllabus, and has received prestige and honours certificates for solo performances at various eisteddfodau. During her time at St. Stithians, the all-rounder found and developed a love for community engagement, leading her to volunteer her time at many charity events. She is a recipient of the Gold President’s Award, the world’s leading youth achievement award. Participants are required to complete various activities over a set period of time in order to earn the award. These are physical recreation, skills, voluntary service, an adventurous journey, and a residential project at the Gold level. Varghese’s skill in all of these areas made her an ideal candidate, and her genuine love for them made her a worthy recipient. Varghese hopes to study actuarial sciences or medicine at Wits, with the hopes of becoming an actuarial scientist or specialist doctor. She says that everyone in her family has pursued a different career path, and they are all very supportive of one another in their choices and the decision-making process. The Star