Johannesburg - The Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) and the police have made a break in a driving licence corruption ring. RTMC spokesperson Simon Zwane announced on Tuesday evening that four alleged kingpins linked to a crime syndicate that has been involved in the fraudulent sale of driving licences in the North West have been arrested. “The suspects, who include driving licence examiners and driving school operators, were arrested today (Tuesday) in Klerksdorp and Stilfontein. An additional two suspects are expected to be added soon,” Zwane said. According to RTMC, the arrests followed a two-year investigation, dubbed “Operation KPS”, conducted by the RTMC’s national traffic anti-corruption unit and the SAPS’s anti-corruption and crime intelligence units. “The investigation revealed that examiners of driving licences were colluding with driving school operators to have learner’s and driving licences fraudulently issued to aspiring drivers without requiring them to undergo the required tests,” Zwane said. The corporation said it was established that the syndicate had hijacked driving licence centres in Klerksdorp, Potchefstroom and Stilfontein to conduct its corrupt activities. “Driving school operators play a pivotal role by booking for aspirant drivers, arranging eye tests with local optometrists, and co-ordinating examiners to ensure that licences were issued. In some instances, driving schools organise jockeys, i.e., qualified drivers who undertake driving tests on behalf of aspirant drivers or applicants,” Zwane added. Following the arrest of the four alleged kingpins on Tuesday, two other suspects handed themselves over to the police later that day. The six suspects, Lucky Kamete (31) examiner, Walter Thomi (43) examiner, Zacharia Tlosang (44) examiner, Koos Mogole (44) driving school owner, Gigs Seleka (33) runner, Teboho Solomon (31) runner appeared in Klerksdorp Magistrate’s Court yesterday for a bail application where they were granted R3000 bail each. The case was postponed to April 5.  Meanwhile, 10 other licensing officials from Harrismith in the Free State are due to appear in the Harrismith Magistrate’s Court on the May 25 on similar charges of fraud related to the issuing of driving licences. Five other officials will appear in the Bethlehem Magistrate’s Court on similar charges. They were all arrested in 2021. Sixteen suspects, including former Mpumalanga provincial government officials, staff from municipal offices, and vehicle fleet owners, will appear at the Nelspruit Specialised Commercial Crimes Court in connection with the alleged R60-million vehicle licence fee corruption on February 21. “They are facing charges of fraud, corruption and money laundering after it was discovered that they allegedly conspired to ensure that vehicle licence fees and arrears worth tens of millions were written off and officials pocketed half of the fees due to the state,” the corporation said. The RTMC has urged members of the public to work with it to root out corruption in driving licence centres. Anonymous tip-offs can be sent via WhatsApp at 083 293 7989. Alternatively, emails can be sent to ntacu@rtmc.co.za. All information provided will be treated with strict confidentiality. @Chulu_M The Star