Johannesburg - As many people return to work this week after the December festivities, it is no secret that some may find it difficult to get excited about the new year with a newfound focus. According to PwC’s Workforce Hopes and Fears survey, which involved more than 52 000 workers across 44 countries, nearly one in every five employees worldwide say they are likely to switch jobs in the next 12 months, indicating that the so-called “great resignation” is not going away. Talent strategist, leadership and HR expert, and executive coach Anja van Beek shares tips to assist in getting the work mojo back. Here are some suggestions to revitalise your current career while you still have the chance to find inspiration and a fresh joy for what you do. What sparks joy in your role? You can significantly improve your performance by finding significance and meaning in your work. Purposefulness is a crucial trait for developing your agility. You will be able to better understand how to leverage your innate talents and interests to help and support the larger team when you concentrate on them. This will immediately affect how you feel like you are contributing meaningfully, which directly affects how you feel like you belong. “As professionals, we are tempted to ‘fix’ something, meaning we focus on our weaknesses instead of building on our innate strengths. To discover your innate strengths, make a list of activities that you do during a normal week.” Get a mentor (or two) A lot of people can attest to the value of having a mentor. The opportunity to discuss your ideas with an expert and gain insight from their experiences in life and work is priceless. There is a lot of value in using the lessons shared to influence your career choices through gaining insight and appreciation. “What I have learnt from my mentor are the benefits of building a network and how to embrace the currency of generosity. This simply means being open to sharing knowledge and being helpful without expecting in return.” What does your career mosaic look like? Career planning as traditionally done is no longer effective. A career mosaic is a notion that Agile HR teaches. As a result, jobs are much more flexible, with an emphasis on personal growth and adding value to both the organisation and the individual. Instead of waiting for a manager or an HR programme, you should take charge of your development. You should initiate conversations about your future and be honest about your goals. The power of self-leadership How are you channelling your energy? What perspective do you have on the world? The daily practice of intentionally choosing how you see the world will influence your thinking, feelings and actions. This is crucial if you wish to re-energise your career. “Our brains are like Velcro – they notice (and sometimes obsess) about the negative first. Be intentional about finding the benefit in your role and the value and impact you are making for the clients and team members.” Another step in self-leadership is to assess whether you are biased. A bias is merely an automatic response we use to navigate the world and respond fast and without thinking. The Star