President Cyril Ramaphosa has extended his best wishes to the government and people of the People’s Republic of China on the occasion of the Chinese Lunar New Year and Annual Spring Festival. Ramaphosa expressed his wish that the advent of the Year of the Rabbit will indeed endow citizens of the People’s Republic of China with the longevity, peace and prosperity associated with the zodiac sign for the year ahead. “My dear brothers and sisters from China and all Chinese communities around the world: I wish you all a happy Lunar New Year and a prosperous Spring Festival 2023. “On behalf of the Government and People of South Africa, I wish the government and the people of China, including here in South Africa, a happy and fulfilling time of goodwill, celebration and friendship, as you renew the bonds between friends or reunite with family during this period,” said Ramaphosa He said as this year began, both countries celebrated the 25th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Republic of South Africa and the People’s Republic of China in 1998. “In addition, South Africa will succeed China as chair and host of the next BRICS Summit, during which we hope to receive His Excellency, President Xi Jinping in South Africa. These occasions provide ample cause for celebration,” added Ramaphosa. Meanwhile, the SANDF has announced a multinational maritime exercise between Russia and China termed Exercise MOSI. According to the SANDF the exercise will take place in Durban and Richards Bay between February 17 and 27. “This will be the second time such an exercise is taking place involving the three naval forces with the first one held in November 2019 in Cape Town. Exercise  co-ordinators concluded all necessary co-ordination and preparation  arrangements for this exercise during virtual planning conferences held in the  beginning of December 2022,” said the SANDF The military said Exercise MOSI would see more than 350 SANDF personnel from various Arms of Services and Divisions participating alongside their Russian and Chinese counterparts  with an aim of sharing operational skills and knowledge. “While Exercise MOSI will be conducted in the southern oceans over the said period, it will coincide with the Armed Forces Day celebration that will take place at uMhlathuze Municipality in Richards Bay, east of KwaZulu Natal,” said the defence force.