Johannesburg - As various Gauteng clinics and hospitals continue to face delays in collection of medical samples since National Health Laboratories Services (NHLS) appointed Zamlangeni Holdings as the new delivery services partner, NHLS has remained mum on fresh accusations of disruptions to collection of medical specimens. Former Hartmann Emergency Care (HEC) employees have once again accused Zamlangeni Holdings of failing to collect medical and blood samples from some of the clinics and hospitals in Gauteng. It is alleged that at some point Covid-19 samples were mixed with other samples, which compromised the integrity and quality of these samples following days of non-collection at some of the clinics. These fresh allegations come after National Health Laboratory Services (NHLS) appointed Zamlangeni Holdings as the new service provider to replace drivers from HEC who have been left jobless since the new contractor took over collection and delivery of medical samples in September 2022. A Zola Clinic lab assistant, who wanted to remain anonymous, told The Star  that they have been experiencing disruptions in specimen collection since the beginning of September 2022, following the introduction of the new service provider. “I am not sure which day specifically, but I can confirm that we have been having delays and disruptions to the collection of samples towards the end of the year. The mistake that I can positively recall was when some of the recent Covid-19 samples were left uncollected for over three days. This resulted in one of our lab technicians mixing these samples with other samples, which is not allowed,” this lab assistant said. Another operational manager from Kocksoord Clinic in Randfontein told The Star that since the new service provider took over the collection of blood samples and specimens, things have become worse. “If I were to rate the previous service provider, I would give them an eight out of 10 and the new guys a four out of 10. Since the new contractors with new guys things are not the same, as there are challenges with the collection of swabs and blood samples. Whenever we try to follow up on the delays and disruptions, we are told that the labs have not received some of the specimens that have already been collected from us. You see, this is not the issue of clinics or NHLS; but is the issue of the new courier company, who are not doing their job,” he said. The same sentiments were shared by yet another laboratory services manager connected to the Empilisweni clinic in Sebokeng. She said there have been a lot of problems at their labs ever since the new delivery company took over the NHLS contract. “There are a lot of things that are happening with our lab since the new company took over. This has resulted in a high rate of rejected blood samples due to specimens being too old following delays in the collection of samples,” she said. Tshegofatso Maluleka, a former employee of HEC and one of the affected drivers who were not absorbed into the employ of the new service provider, said they have learned from various clinics that samples have gone for days without being collected at some of the clinics. He said some of the vehicles are not properly accredited for this type of job, adding that the new service provider has gone as far as using public transport to collect samples from clinics. “Blood was not being collected on days of December holidays. We know of a clinic in Zola saying they are gatvol  because they are not taking Covid specimens anymore because they are not being collected and they have to go drop it themselves at the laboratory,” Maluleka said. The National Health Laboratory Service (NHLS), in response to The Star's inquiry, said it did not experience any challenges and/or service disruption with regard to specimen collection in and around Soweto during the aforementioned period. "Please refer all your other questions to the service provider for more information as the NHLS cannot comment on their behalf," the NHLS said.  In September and more recently, Democratic Alliance (DA) shadow minister of health, Michele Clarke, said the disruption of collection of medical samples was a big concern for the party. “We are concerned that the Covid-19 pandemic exposed the severe failings of our public health system, and now, on top of all these issues, patients might not be diagnosed in time because medical samples are not transported from clinics and hospitals to laboratories for analysis,” Clarke said of the situation. Attempts to get a comment from Zamlangeni Holdings were not successful at the time of going to print after questions were sent and phone calls were attempted. The Star