Johannesburg - The SA Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) has condemned the murder of eSwatini political activist, Thulani Maseko, who was assassinated over the weekend. Maseko was a member of the liberation party Pudemo; and one of many activists who have been leading a civil revolt against King Mswati, the ruling monarch of the Kingdom of eSwatini. Maseko was also the chairperson of the Multi-Stakeholder Forum, a pro-democracy group that brings together all formations, both political and civil society. Maseko was also a human rights lawyer. Over the years, there has been an increase in political killings in eSwatini. The killings are driven by the state to quell pro-democracy voices in the country. Saftu general secretary Zwelinzima Vavi said the human rights abuses in Swaziland were of great concern. Swaziland has also been in a state of emergency since 1973. "It is reported that comrade Maseko was assassinated at his home in front of his family. This barbarity, which is an expression of sheer oppression by the monarchy, is the latest in a spate of protracted human fights in eSwatini," Vavi said. He called on organisations such as the African Union (AU), the SADC community, and the UN, among others, to come together and engage with the eSwatini government and political parties and unions for an everlasting solution. "Experience has shown that for their efforts, these organisations have massaged Mswati’s regime despite its record of human rights abuses, which in the recent period reached a peak in 2021. Since then, the regime has accelerated the reign of terror against activists," he said. Vusi Shongwe, an eSwatini political activist who has been hiding in South Africa for a number of years, told The Star that there was a need for democratisation in eSwatini. "The king said he is going to deal with people who are calling for democracy. There have been other leaders who have been assassinated.  “What we are saying is that we believe that a lasting solution is for us to sit down at a table with the facilitation of international bodies; this should happen before more people get killed," Shongwe said. Shongwe appealed to eSwatini citizens not to participate in this year’s general election in the landlocked country. He said the elections would be a sham. The Star