Johannesburg - ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe has slammed the DA’s “Power To The People March”, revealing that the ANC will not be receiving a memorandum from the party. Mabe addressed the media outside the ANC headquarters in Joburg, surrounded by scores of ANC supporters who had been stationed at the precinct since early morning. “The ANC will not be receiving any memorandum from the DA. Luthuli House is not a playground for other political parties. They must not do this. The country is facing electricity challenges. The ANC today is convening an energy dialogue that the secretary general of the ANC will be addressing with all other industry experts. We dispatched our ANC Youth League to come and welcome the DA,” said Mabe. The DA says the march is due to the Eskom crisis, which has seen the country plunged into Stage 3 and Stage 4 load shedding since the start of 2023. Earlier this week, the party invited South Africans to speak out against burning issues prevalent in SA. “On Wednesday, we will march to the ANC headquarters at Luthuli House against the ANC-engineered electricity crisis. I urge all South Africans to join us to voice their anger at the ANC’s destruction of our country’s energy infrastructure and economy and to demand urgent solutions to this escalating crisis.” DA leaders from provinces across the country were on the ground today, addressing the masses and highlighting that the ANC is responsible for the Eskom crisis. DA shadow MEC of Education Khume Ramulifho, says load shedding has deeply affected the academic year across the province, as teachers often work fewer hours and find it difficult to continue with one-on-one learning. DA MP John Steenhuisen also spoke about the essence of the march and said, “Eskom was engineered through terrible, outdated policy, disgusting greed and corruption, and, above all, through the deployment of useless and often criminal cadres to the state power utility.” “While our country is going through an incredibly tough time, it is inspiring to see that you still have the spirit for this fight. You haven’t given up yet," said Steenhuisen. The Star