Johannesburg - Scores of angry parents in Cosmo City and other parts of Gauteng were left to ponder the future of their children after they were turned away by admissions officials on the first day of the Gauteng school term, which began on Wednesday. Some of the parents who protested outside Cosmo City One Secondary School were told to go to Tirisano-Mmogo Primary School, where some education department officials were stationed as they worked overtime to try to solve the issue of late applications and placement of Grades 1 to 8 learners. When parents arrived at Tirisano-Mmogo Primary School, they were told to either apply online to get a reference number or go to Sharonlea Primary School to complete their applications. Others were told they would be given a call back in a few days with feedback on their applications. As if the last minute run-around was not enough, parents on the streets of Cosmo City told The Star of their frustration at being sent from pillar to post without having secured schools for their children. Sebenzile Skosana, a parent, said she had applied in August and has been told once again that she will receive a call in a few days, alerting her of her child's situation. "I was here in August and made my application then. I was told that I will receive a phone call, which never came. Even today, I have been told the same. "This is really unfair, as I have taken a day from work with the hope of finalising a school for my Grade 4 child who was looking forward to starting his school term today. Now I am told to expect another call in a few days time. "This means I will be taking yet another day or two from work, knowing very well that I will not be paid for the days I did not work. I really do not know what to do now because my child is busy asking me questions as his peers are at school, what about him. This really has affected him and his confidence," Skosana said. An angry father of two learners, Simon Modiya, who had already been to Tirisano-Mmogo Primary School, complained about the run-around he had been given by the Department of Education officials, saying he has not been able to buy uniforms and stationary for his children due to not having been allocated a school for them. "I was at Tirisano this morning and was told to come here to Cosmo City One Secondary School, and now that I am here, I am being told to go back to Tirisano, so now what must we do?" Modiya asked. Parents threatened to camp outside Cosmo City Secondary School while Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga was inside getting a briefing from the school’s officials. Evelyn Musonda, originally from Zimbabwe, whose son is expected to start Grade 3, was left to ponder her situation after she was turned away because she only had an unabridged certificate and no other legal documents to support her application. "I only have an unabridged certificate and have been told to get the right documents. I do not know what that means for my daughter, who was born here in South Africa at the Rahima Moosa Hospital but does not have the right birth certificate. All along we have been using this certificate, but today we are told this certificate is not a legal document," she said. In the midst of an ongoing online registration crisis that has left thousands of Grade 1 to 8 pupils without schools, Motshekga said that her department will resolve the backlog in the placement of Gauteng learners in schools within 10 days. Provincial authorities said that more than 1 300 primary and high school pupils were still awaiting admission to schools. Motshekga said that while this was not an ideal situation for parents and learners, she was happy that at least 99.5% of learners have secured placement. She appealed for calmness to prevail on the part of angry parents who have run out of time to get their children enrolled in Gauteng schools. "We are asking parents to give us 10 days to find spots for their children," the minister said. She said that the province’s education MEC, Matome Chiloane, had given her the assurance that the backlog was being addressed. "He’s finding spaces in churches. He’s even planning to reopen a closed college. We are doing everything in our power to assist parents," she said. At the same time, the Gauteng Education Department said that it had opened over 2 000 teaching posts to deal with the increased number of learners at the province’s schools. Motshekga said she was concerned by overcrowding at some of the schools in Diepsloot, adding that this needs to be resolved. The Star