Johannesburg - The Gauteng police have called on the victims of robberies to come forward after a gang of street robbers operating in Hillbrow, and the Johannesburg CBD was arrested on Sunday, January 1, 2023. The arrests come after videos of the gang have been circulating on social media. Most of the video shows a group of four to five men approaching one victim at a time, where the victim is either choked by one or two of the robbers at a time, and then the rest of the gang joins in and slaps, picks pockets, or even stabs some of the victims. According to the police, this modus operandi has been in use for a long time. The viral video of the robbers has caught the attention of ordinary South Africans, who have voiced their concerns over the brazen nature of these robberies and assaults. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Mavela Masondo said the police have been keeping an eye on the gang, and this time around, they were able to swoop in immediately after yet another street robbery. "Members from the SAPS and Johannesburg Metro Police Department kept a close observation of the gang until they pounced on them soon after they robbed another person. Victims and those with information can call Colonel Rivalani Nkotswi, and tip-offs and information can be sent via WhatsApp via the Crime Stop App on 0860 010 111," Masondo said. In a video that went viral, the gang can be seen accosting people before robbing them. Over the years, Hillbrow and the Johannesburg CBD have become infested by gangs that operate in groups, accosting and robbing people, even in broad daylight. Some of the victims have been stabbed while others are slapped and assaulted, and the robbers flee in different directions with each robbery. Masondo said the latest arrest was made possible after videos of the gang emerged on social media. "The arrest was effected after several videos emerged whereby the gang of about four to five men attacked the victims and robbed them of their belongings. Some of the suspects are said to be hiding at an abandoned flat in Hillbrow," he said. The news of this arrest comes after police managed to arrest a man accused of fatally stabbing an on-duty police officer on New Year’s Day. The 52-year-old Warrant Officer Ntshidi Marutla was disarmed of his service pistol and fatally stabbed during a stop and search operation in Rosettenville on New Year’s Day. Police spokesperson Athlenda Mathe said another member also sustained a stab wound and was taken to a nearby medical facility for medical care. "At the time of his death, Warrant Officer Marutla had 30 years of service, having joined the organisation in 1992. He was attached to the Moffat View Station." The Star