Johannesburg - The Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) has revealed that over 4 400 motorists have been arrested for drunken driving, speeding, and other offences in Gauteng. RTMC spokesperson Simon Zwane shared the details on SAfm. “We are now sitting at more than 4 400 people arrested, mostly for drunken driving, speeding, reckless, and negligent driving. And people are driving without a driver’s licence who don't have a driver’s licence at all. Others have outstanding warrants of arrest, so they have ignored the traffic fines.” Asked about the safety interventions implemented for the festive season across the country, he said they had interventions on various roads to prevent fatalities. “We had deployed traffic officers on all the roads; we identified at the start of the season 34 roads that were problematic and needed intensified law enforcement, and we have done that. We have managed to stabilise clashes on the N3. Around Pietermaritzburg, around Pongola.“ “We have had interventions to deal with trucks and to deal with the overloaded trailers that go to the borders of the country. So those who were stopped around Joburg were stopped and forced to offload the luggage.” He says the interventions were successful because there were no major crashes on the roads. “It looks successful at this stage. We have not had any major crashes,” said Zwane. As the festive season draws to a culmination, scores of motorists are expected to be on the roads, particularly with schools set to open soon. Massive traffic volumes are expected, with possible emergencies. The Star also reported that motorists are expected to return from holiday destinations to Gauteng province to resume work from their holiday destinations. It was further revealed that roads leading into Gauteng are expected to be heavily congested this week. “We urge road users to comply with road safety rules and regulations. Road crashes and fatalities contribute to the alarming rate of disabilities and deaths in the province,” said Sello Maremane, Gauteng Traffic Police spokesperson. “The Gauteng Traffic Police will be on high alert as part of the integrated law enforcement plan to deal decisively with any form of road traffic violations such as drunk driving, reckless and negligent driving, speeding, jaywalking, freight overloading, and roadworthiness,” Maremane said. The Star