Johannesburg - After a successful show in 2022, international award-winning artist Simphiwe Dana is back with another offering, “MOYA”, which pays tribute to her late mother. The highly anticipated three-day show is set to happen from March 3 to March 5  at the Joburg Theatre. The “Umoya, the Ndiredi” hitmaker said she took a journey in dealing with her grief. "I wanted to honour her. It was like a spiritual journey of trying to deal with my grief or understand grief in all contexts. I was not releasing my mom in a way, but finding her over the spiritual divide and connecting with her.  “And what I found about what I do musically is that it comes from a space of wanting to heal myself. And then finding out that it's not just me who feels that way right now, Basically everyone," said Dana. "The success of last year's ‘Umoya’ was really based on that. It was a three-day show. All the tickets were sold out. Because we were all going through a rough time. And we were all trying to process grief, and somehow how I contextualise it perhaps talks to a lot of people." Dana says the first project was a success because all the people she worked with ensured that they went all out, and that is why they can do it again this year. She hopes it grows into a project that extends beyond the borders of South Africa. She went on to mention all of the lessons she had learnt from the previous show. "The programme is going to change slightly but not too much. We are going to introduce some new songs, remove others, and make the show much more compact. We are working it down to just two hours. "I focused on the African context of spirituality and Christianity, and in doing that, I observed how we have been influenced by Christianity. It has enriched our landscape. I think it's important to take from other cultures what makes sense and what enriches us. So I approached this thing from that perspective, and one of my influence is a church from KwaZulu-Natal," she said. "I am on a journey of opening a window to my unknown musical prowess. I look forward to also showcasing all the fashion and hair that celebrates many of our creatives." Dana has been candid about being herself when making her music, and further pointing out that she does not follow trends. "Be honest about yourself; do not write for trends." The Star