Johannesburg - The Gauteng Basic Department of Education has remained upbeat even though more than 500 learners remain unplaced and without schools. Last week, scores of parents voiced their frustration over the Gauteng Department of Basic Education’s online registration system after they were forced to wait more than three days to have their children placed at their preferred schools. On Friday, the department said it had managed to reduce the number of unplaced learners from more than 2 000 to just over 500. This comes after Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga defended the Gauteng online registration system , saying even though this system is not perfect, it is very necessary as it gives a clear indication on the enrolment issues. According to the latest statistics, the department has only a backlog of 571 Grade 1 and 8 learners yet to be accommodated across the province’s public schools.  Spokesperson Steve Mabona said there were 97 Grade 1 and more than 470 Grade 8 learners who needed to be placed. "Since we started with the process of the online admissions system has successfully facilitated the placement of over 291 574 Grade 1 and 8 learners. Grade 1 (139 367) and Grade 8 (152 207) to date. "Accordingly, placement challenges within our identified high-pressure areas – where certain schools received a much higher number of applications than the number of learners they can accommodate ~ are being attended to through a variety of interventions which will ensure that all learners are placed." Mabona said that the department had tried to ensure that learners were placed in spite of the challenges, especially in Gauteng’s high-pressure areas such as Cosmo City, Soweto and Diepsloot. The DA in Gauteng, which conducted oversight visits to inspect school readiness at Laerskool Danie Malan, Hoërskool Pretoria-Noord, Gerrit Maritz Hoërskool , and Laerskool Theresa Park in Tshwane, urged the department to speed up the building of new schools. "These schools are in high-demand areas where parents are looking for space. Schools that are at capacity, such as Laerskool Danie Malan, are prepared to expand and have satellite campuses to accommodate more learners," said the DA’s Khume Ramulifho. "The DA is urging the MEC to prioritise building new schools in high-demand areas. The department must use data from its online system to plan and allocate resources." The party added that it would continue to monitor the school readiness and placement of learners and urged the department to move with speed to conclude this process. The Star