Johannesburg - The Minister of Higher Education, Science, and Innovation, Dr. Blade Nzimande, has assured current and prospective students that the announcement of matric results will not affect the state of readiness for the 2023 post-school education, training and academic year. Registration for the academic yea began on January 6 and is expected to end on February 20. It is revealed that there will be several universities that will allow late registrations. Prospective students are advised to continue to communicate with the universities of their choice through their communication channels. "Most of our Technical, Vocational, and Training Colleges (TVET) have commenced with their teaching and learning, including practicals, following the successful online registration process. Some of the colleges are still accepting students in areas where the enrolment targets are not being met. The department's TVET branch is monitoring the developments at each college. "Community colleges opened for inland provinces on January 11, 2023, and for coastal provinces on January 18, 2023. "Prospective students are advised to go to their colleges of choice for registration for the academic year 2023." In order to further assist prospective students, the department has activated the services of the Central Application Clearing House (CACH) to assist individuals in accessing university, college, and skills development opportunities. "The system will open from the January 24 to March 31, 2023. As part of the Department of Higher Education and Training's normal process to work with the sector to prepare for the academic year's registration process, consultation meetings are currently held with various stakeholders, including Universities South Africa (USAF), the South African College Principals Organisation (Sacpo), the South African Union of Students (SAUS), and the South African Technical and Vocation Student Association (SATVESA)." Nzimande also reminded students that application results will be communicated to all applicants once NSFAS has received confirmation from the institution that an academic offer has been made. This will be communicated to all students via SMS, email, and through their myNSFAS accounts. For further information on the NSFAS process, applicants are advised to visit the NSFAS website at www.nsfas.org.za. Further details on the state of readiness will be announced by the minister before the end of January during the minister's annual media briefing following the final engagements with all relevant stakeholders within the post-school education and training sector. The Star