Johannesburg - The South African government has been accused of harbouring a fugitive. Many on social media have reacted to the recent interview the wanted former president of Botswana, Ian Khama, had with Checkpoint. Among the most publicised issues have been Khama’s relationship with President Cyril Ramaphosa’s sister-inlaw, Brigitte Motsepe, and the Botswana government’s allegations that Khama and Motsepe stole more than $10 million (about R172m). However, Khama denied these reports, saying his relationship with Motsepe dated to the days of the Struggle, as both his parents and Motsepe’s parents were close family friends. Among those who have spoken out against the harbouring of Khama is African Transformation Movement (ATM) leader Vuyo Zungula, who has called for Khama to be handed over to the Botswana law enforcement agencies. Late last year, a Gaborone regional court issued a warrant of arrest against Khama, who is facing at least 14 charges, including of illegal firearms and money laundering. In April last year, Khama failed to appear before Broadhurst Magistrate’s Court with his co-accused after he was summoned to appear for the resumption of his case. Prior to this, he was seen for the first time in Johannesburg. It is reported that South African political leaders are refusing to hand over Khama, with Zungula saying South Africa is acting in contravention of an extradition treaty it has with Botswana. “South Africa must respect the rule of law, even if an accused is your brother-in-law or your close friend. South Africa is still trying to extradite Sheppard Bushiri and the Gupta brothers, but the government refuses let former Botswana president Ian Khama face the music in his country. The rule of law must apply for all. Our laws reject that we harbour Khama here. Therefore, he must be sent back to Botswana,” Zungula said. According to the South African Development Community, who are signatories of the organisation’s extradition protocols, each member state agrees to hand over to other countries any person within its jurisdiction wanted for prosecution. Zungula is not the only one calling for Khama to be extradited. The Institute of Democracy and Transformation said it would take up the matter through the courts in a bid to see the former Botswana president tried in his own country. The institute told The Star it intended to go to court to ensure Khama was returned to Botswana. “We are not going to harbour fugitives in South Africa. We didn’t allow it with al-Bashir, and we’re not going to allow it with Ian Khama. “We will mobilise society to institute a citizen’s arrest wherever they see Khama in South Africa,” the NGO said. During one of his appearances in the country, Khama told journalists that his successor, Mokgweetsi Masisi, was using state institutions to pursue him. Khama is thought to be hiding in Durban’s Zimbali estates. He was not available for comment. This is a developing investigation by The Star’s investigation unit. Last year, The Star reported that besides US dollars, which were reported to have been stolen by Namibian nationals, millions of Botswana pulas were also found among the stash of millions at President Cyril Ramaphosa's farm in Bela Bela. Attempts to get comment from Motsepe and Presidency spokesperson, Vincent Magwenya, were unsuccessful at the time of going to print. The Star