Johannesburg - Frustrated parents have complained about the Gauteng Department of Education’s online registration process. This comes after some of the parents are yet to receive approval for the placement of their children across schools in the province, just two days ahead of the start of the 2023 school year. On Monday, members of the Star visited the Sandton and the Soweto Departments of Education district offices and were greeted by a slew of disgruntled parents, some of whom had been queuing up since 5 am. The Sandton Education District office in Morningside was filled with disgruntled parents who had gone to complain about placements that did not make sense or about no placement at all. The same was the order of the day in Soweto. Louisa Ntantiso, a parent of a Grade 8 student, stated that she applied for her child to be admitted to Alexandra High School, but her child was admitted to Realogile High School, which is located far away and requires public transportation to get there. "I do not understand why they could not place my child at a school that is close to me. I will accept it, but I am not happy with what has happened," Ntantiso said. In Soweto, Lerato Moloi of Diepkloof expressed disappointment with the online system, which did not consider any of the five schools in Soweto that her grade-five child would have been comfortable with and instead assigned her to a school in Bosmont, a few kilometres away from Soweto. "How am I supposed to take my child to Bosmont? I do not even know the school they want to take my child to. On top of that, I am a single, unemployed parent. How will I afford the transport fees needed to transport my child to Bosmont?" Moloi asked. Some parents were displeased with the fact that they were from affluent areas and that their children were being sent to township schools near where they lived. A parent who asked not to be named said he was from Fourways, but his teenage child was told that there was only space for him at a school in Tembisa. "That’s not going to happen. I am not looking down on Tembisa, but I do not see a reason for my child to go there," he said. A foreign national, who had come with his wife to get space for their child, said he was from Norwood, but he had been informed that there was only space for his child in a school near Bedfordview. "They need to fix this online application system. It does not work. How can my child go to an area that she is not familiar with, and it’s also not a safe area?" he said. Another parent who did not want to be named was livid when they were told that computers were not working. "Why are they telling us about computers being off-line when they had all the time to fix them during the holidays? Some of us have been here queuing since 5am in the morning, and now we are told about computers being off-line," the parent said. At the Pimville offices, members of Operation Dududla manned the gates to the school, singing struggle songs and shouting that they did not want foreign nationals there. The movement has organised pickets at various district offices in protest of what they term the "prioritisation of foreign national pupils and teachers" across the Gauteng province. The Gauteng Department of Education, which is responsible for placing these learners, said capacity at schools remained a key challenge. Last week, the department said about 5 000 applications were received during the late registration period, which opened on December 20, 2022. Gauteng Education Department spokesperson Steve Mabona said education MEC Matome Chiloane would be updating parents during a press briefing set for Hoërskool Jeugland in Kempton Park today (Tues). The MEC is expected to provide feedback on the placement of learners from grades 1 and 8 and give an update on the state of the province’s readiness for the new academic year. Last week, the department said they were still working hard to resolve the matter affecting pupil placement. "We are working closely with the schools to increase capacity as they receive mobile units. Those that are building will also be monitored very closely, and they can assist the department in increasing capacity. We are working tirelessly to respond to all the appeals that have been lodged with the department. We are finalising that in due course," Mabona indicated. The Star