MPHO MUKOSI Lesedi Lydia Sefolo, from Johannesburg, is appealing for sponsorship so she can showcase her work at the prestigious Milano Jewellery Week in Italy. Lesedi was born in the northern suburbs of Johannesburg. She grew up in a very supportive home where creativity was encouraged, which grew her passion for the arts, especially when it came to design. “From an early age, my artistic side was always shown above everything else. Going into high school, visual arts was my strongest subject, and I learned many skills from it which helped me at university. “When an opportunity presented itself for me to study jewellery design and manufacturing, I embraced it as I believed it was going to bring my creativity to life,” Lesedi said. Being comfortable with anything related to art and design, Lesedi was excited about this new route that she was taking. “I’m currently a second-year student at the Tshwane University of Technology, in the Pretoria Arts Campus, who is studying jewellery design and manufacture.  “Towards the end of my first year, which was in 2022, I was encouraged to create an Instagram page to showcase my work, which I did. I received a message on my Instagram jewellery page from Artistar Jewels, who introduced themselves as a partner of the Milano Jewellery Week and invited me to take part in the Milano Jewellery Week in October 2023 because of my content,” Lesedi said. After she received the message, a representative from the company Prodes Italia, which is responsible for Artistar Jewels, contacted her regarding the application process and what to do when accepted. “Later on, I was interviewed, my application was reviewed, and I became a participant in the Milano Jewellery Week. The amount of pieces I chose to display had a cost as it was a prestigious event with valuable items that would be on display.” Lesedi said she chose eight pieces to be displayed, which cost €5 850 (VAT included) which converted to R107 618. “I currently don’t have the funds to go to Milan, including the funds to display my eight pieces of jewellery. Having a sponsor would be a great help in allowing me to participate in a life-changing experience,” she added. For those who would like to donate towards Lesedi’s trip to Italy, they can do so by contacting her Instagram account, @Lumiere_ide_handmade_jewell.