Mpho Mukosi Johannesburg - The Samflo Student Foundation is a non-profit organisation that helps learners at secondary school level with their studies.  The foundation offers online studies for those who cannot catch up with the rest of the learners in class by having extra online lessons with them. It also helps those who are doing Grade 12 with university applications as well as bursary applications. The foundation is run by a group of varsity students who saw it as a must to help young learners who are struggling to catch up with the teacher, so they at least have extra lessons with them after every contact class. “It was difficult for us to help all these learners since not all mentors had computers, but that did not stop us from tutoring them; we even sent a lot of emails to business owners in request for new computers and a room to use as an office, but there was no luck,” said Ndamulelo Mulaudzi, the founder of Samflo. “On the 30th of September 2021, I was invited to participate in the 2022 SCI community upliftment project, which was run by Capricorn FM, which I did, and little did I know that one day I was going to be sponsored with computers for the foundation,” he explained. On October 19, 2021, the foundation was sponsored with two new computers, which were delivered all the way from Polokwane to Dzwerani, a small town outside Thohoyandou, by the SCI community upliftment project, which is run by Capricorn FM. "The organisation was upgrading the PCs in the office, and we felt that we cannot throw them out when we have people sending us messages every day asking for help to start their businesses.  “We were honestly trying to make a difference. There is a listener.  “His name is Elvis Seroka, and he sent us a message saying they need help in their non-profit organisation, where he gives community computer lessons.  “That’s how we identified him,” said Capricorn FM’s marketing director. “Moshidi Mashale from Phalaborwa sent us a message, telling us how she has been struggling with school supplies due to the situation in her family, and what we could do is offer her a computer as a kickstart. With Ndamulelo Mulaudzi, they have created an after-school programme that supports various learners in their community. “All these people want to make a difference one way or another, and for us as an organisation, no matter how difficult these times are, we want to lend a helping hand where we can,” he added. Ndamulelo and his team were calling out for help with sponsorship in order to help more learners at the beginning of the year. “Our goal this year is to help as many learners as we can while we have just started the year.  “I believe that if we can start tutoring them now, it will be way easier for them to tackle their final year exam and pass with flying colours. “We still need new computers, study guides, and a bigger office since we now have a lot of people helping and the space we are using now is small, as well as money donations to help the disadvantage once with application fees for universities,”  he added. The Star