Johannesburg – The Class of 2022 put in so many hours of study and dedicated themselves tirelessly, even when they were faced with societal disparities, especially load shading. These are the sentiments of the Each One Teach One Foundation, which congratulated the Class of 2022 after their results were released on Friday. "Most Grade 12 learners around the country were faced with an unfortunate situation with load shedding; they studied under candlelight in preparation for their final exams. Load shedding impacted students' ability to study and write their final examinations, and sometimes exam rooms were dark without electricity," the foundation said. "This negatively affected access to broadband and computers required for online education in disadvantaged communities." Each One Teach One said the cohort of learners performed,  in spite of being affected by the Covid-19 disruption from when they were in Grade 10. "They continued unabated to realities of intellectual backlog as the children of the historically oppressed African majority who still have to learn under conditions that are not ideal for the progressive consumption and production of knowledge," the foundation said. It added that the Gauteng class of 2022 defied the odds to make it to the second-best performance with 84.4%, a 1.7% increase from 2021.. Overall, 15 Gauteng districts performed above 80%, with four districts being part of the top 10 performing districts in the country, having achieved pass rates of more than 85% each. "The Department of Education, together with stakeholders, needs to deal with the shocking lack of sanitary facilities available, overcrowded classrooms, disciplinary issues, crime and violence in school, and work towards reducing the high dropout rate," the foundation said. The organisation said that it was happy that all provinces have focused on uplifting their work ethics and commitment, thus resulting in producing more bachelor's passes and improved performance by bleach children, which puts an end to Verwoerd’s fallacy. The foundation further congratulated the teachers, principals, administrators and all stakeholders who worked tirelessly each day to help the students succeed. "We say to all the learners, your past 12 years have come to fruition, and this is how a country is skilling its youth and its workforce in readiness for the real world," it said. The  foundation called on those who failed not to lose hope but to try again to achieve their full potential, including through applying to write supplementary exams. "The government has kept the doors of learning and culture open, especially to the children of the working class, notwithstanding the difficult conditions they faced with," the foundation added. The Star