Johannesburg - The National Freedom Party (NFP) says it is delighted with the news that President Cyril Ramaphosa is considering a Cabinet reshuffle and is also making a call that he appoints ethical leaders whose integrity is beyond reproach. The party believes a Cabinet reshuffle is long overdue and further reveals that pervasive corruption across various departments and levels of government, continuous load shedding, the torrid state of SOEs, high unemployment, and crumbling healthcare infrastructure are a few of the challenges that appear to have worsened under this current Cabinet. "President Ramaphosa needs to do an honest evaluation of the success of his current Cabinet. And when he makes his selection, he needs to put aside personal feelings around who did and did not support him. He needs to make his decision based solely on performance," stated NFP Leader in Parliament, Ahmed Munzoor Shaik Emam. "Every sector of our society, from police to healthcare to housing and education, requires leadership that will be innovative in their solutions and agile in responding to the challenges that we face as a country. This is why we encourage the president to appoint both a generational mix as well as people that come from different sectors of society. The president needs to identify individuals within and outside his party that will put the interests of South Africans first in the execution of their roles," added Emam. "Based on our internal evaluations, the NFP believes the one department which has improved in its function and service is the Department of Home Affairs. We applaud the Minister for his robust attempts and hope the president will either retain him in that position or place him in a department that requires the type of leadership, vision, and skills he has to offer." The party says the Cabinet needs to reflect the needs of the country rather than the factions of the ANC. They have also called for an evaluation of the performance of DGs in the respective departments, as often they act as bottlenecks to implementation. "In our oversight role, many times, we have witnessed DGs being one of the biggest challenges in the implementation of policies. This is why it is critical we have qualified individuals in these roles who have a track record of delivery and execution. As such, the NFP believes the president’s evaluation of the performance of his Cabinet needs to include an evaluation of the DGs," concluded Emam. The Star