Johannesburg - Mkhululi Siqula, fondly known as Heavy-K, may come across as nonchalant on social media, but when it is time to defend himself, he does so without thinking twice. In a slew of posts shared on Twitter, the Beautiful War hitmaker reminded all those who claim he has fallen off what makes him the "Drum Boss" that he is. Siqula pointed out that his mother had prepared him for days when he would be trolled about his craft, further revealing that no amount of hate or negativity would ever consume him. "My late mom prepared me for this. No amount of negativity or hate will ever consume me. Ndincameni. Your opinions are welcomed, no worries, but Heavy K is iconic and will always be. Nova ungathini." "I was carrying the entire industry at the age of 21 years old. Hence, y'all feel like I am too old. Lol nah fam I am only 30-years-old, turning 31 this year," wrote the artist. He revealed that last year, he worked with Ed Sheeran and Jorja Smith but was never boastful about it. "Last year literally I got to work with Ed Sheeran and Jorja Smith, but never heard me making noise. Bcs I am not the Khuluma kakhulu type. The same naysayers they will be claiming me not long from now when starting seeing me getting all the love and validation internationally," said Siqula. "I am a different breed & I knew, me being quiet not making noise about how much of a giant I am. I'll be disrespected one day, but I still chose not to blow my own horn. It's always nice when you give people a platform to tell you great you are instead of always bragging." He says if he were obsessed with being on top and chasing trends, he could have young boys in the studio and rename all the songs Heavy-K, but he always prefers to work hard to make his music. When a follower suggested that he has fallen off, he said: "Angithi now y'all are following any nonsense that trends on Tik Tok instead of appreciating real music & real musicians unfortunately I'll rather be considered as irrelevant than to make trendy music, my fans got me. I am so okay," said Heavy-K. "What they are doing to Kabza is the same thing they did to me during my prime. I knew it would happen being a hitmaker and consistency irritates some of our people so much that they compare you to each and every artist." The Star