Johannesburg - The speaker of the Joburg Municipal Council, Colleen Makhubele, said despite a difficult working relationship with the former mayor of Joburg, Mpho Phalatse, she had great respect for her. Makhubele said she had noted media reports about a strained relationship between herself and the former mayor. But she says tension between her office and Phalatse’s office was brought about by differences in political ideology. “I want to say that when I was chair of chairs, we worked well together as a person. I have great respect for her, and it is unfortunate that she was on the wrong side of politics, and she will add enormous value. We still need people like her to serve,” Makhubele said. Last week, the office of the speaker delivered a bag to Phalatse’s office, which all councillors received. The bag was meant to ensure that councillors were able to store documents, laptops and other important documents. But Phalatse rejected the bag, thinking that it was from Makhubele.  She later took the bag when she found out that it was meant for all councillors. The issue came out in the media, with reports suggesting that Makhubele had sent the bag to harass the former mayor. “This experience was hurtful, but I have forgiven her. We may differ politically, but I respect her as a fellow woman and as a mother too. We operate in a tough political space, but I respect her,” Makhubele said. Makhubele said the new government of local unity under the leadership of Thapelo Amad, the new mayor of Joburg, would ensure a people-focused vision for service delivery. “We will now be able to focus on the poor and the marginalised; we will be able to look at the jobs crisis in the city; and we will now be able to stabilise the finances of the city so we can start to work,” she said. Makhubele said the challenges that came with the DA administration included that there was no alignment with the national and provincial governments. She said the new administration was well co-ordinated and would be able to achieve more in a short period of time. The energy crisis was at the top of the agenda. The Star approached Phalatse to speak about her working relationship with Makhubele, but there had been no response by the time of publication. The Star