Cape Town - Frustrated parents whose children have yet to be placed in schools have blamed the Western Cape Education Department’s online system for leaving them scrambling. More than a million pupils returned to school benches on Wednesday eager to kick off the 2023 academic year. But some parents were left frustrated and panicked when their children were turned away at the school gates due to placement and registration issues. At Aberdare and Gateway primary schools, dozens of parents were hopeful for their children to start the school year but had to turn around, advised to visit their nearest district office for assistance. An emotional Tamara Venge said she felt hopeless after applying online for her son who is to start Grade R this year, but was told he was not accepted at Leiden Primary School. “I applied online last year for my youngest child who was to start Grade R today. He was so excited but when we got to the gates of the school, I was told that his name wasn't there. I got confirmation from our late registration done during November. I am very emotional because this was not how we saw his first day to be. “His other siblings went to school today and he looked forward (to it) and now this happened. His school uniform and everything was bought already and now to hear that he might not get a place is very disheartening. I have to now go to the district office in hopes that they can sort out this issue, but being unemployed, I don’t know how I will get there if I have no taxi fare. The money was spent on school supplies,” said Venge. She queued with several other parents and children who had similar experiences and are desperate to get started in school. Luyolo Mchasa said his daughter was also registered late due to her moving from the Eastern Cape to Cape Town. “Our closest school is Aberdare Primary School and I am hoping she can be placed here. We live right opposite the school. We were told to look for other schools in the area, but that will cost money for transport and who will look after her when she travels alone? She is not familiar with the area. I was told to go to the district office so we will see what happens,” said Mchasa. A notice pasted outside Aberdare Primary School read: “The school currently only has space for Grade 1 Xhosa class.” At Chuma Primary School in Khayelitsha, a teacher stood at the door and called out the names of registered children, with a number of parents and children left standing outside.  They were asked to queue to see if their children would get space. Parent Vuyiswa Cebo said: “I applied for my child last year in June, then I met a lady from school, she said I must write my daughter’s name down and she will register her. “So I don’t know if she registered the child,” said Cebo. MEC for Education David Maynier and Premier Winde welcomed back pupils for the new school year. He said 1.2 million learners returned to school, including nearly 92 000 Grade 1s heading to “big school”, and more than 96 000 Grade 8s heading to high school. About 35 872 teachers and 7 578 public service staff were on hand to support them, he said. “The department has been hard at work helping our schools prepare for the start of the school year. All top-up textbooks ordered by schools were delivered by October 2022 at a cost of R62 million. In addition, stationery supplies to the value of R39m, furniture to the value of R50m, and other equipment to the value of R1.6m were also delivered by December 2022. We have made incredible progress, placing over 50 000 more learners than this time last year,” said Maynier. SA Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) spokesperson Sibongile Kwazi said shop stewards had not experienced challenges. Cape Times