Johannesburg - The African Transformation Movement (ATM) says it welcomes the news that acting Public Protector Advocate Kholeka Gcaleka has completed her investigation into President Cyril Ramaphosa’s violation of the Executive Members’ Ethics Act (EMEA) on the Phala Phala farm scandal. In June 2022, the ATM brought its complaint to suspended Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane in relation to Ramaphosa’s alleged conduct relating to allegations of criminal activities at one of his properties. Leader of ATM, Vuyo Zungula compelled the public protector to investigate possible violations of the laws after former state security agency head Arthur Fraser opened a criminal case against Ramaphosa.  It was reported that more than $4 million was allegedly stolen from Ramaphosa’s Limpopo farm in 2020. It was further reported that Ramaphosa had ordered his head of security, Wally Rhoode, to track and trace the culprits, who were subsequently kidnapped, interrogated, and paid to stay silent about the farm robbery. "As the ATM, we can confirm that we have received communication from the acting Public Protector, advocate Gcaleka, who has indicated that her report on the investigations into the gross violation of the Executive Members' Ethics Act by a sitting President Cyril Ramaphosa is now complete. "The ATM is now eagerly awaiting to see how the public protector’s office has interacted with and processed the same information that was given to the independent panel," said ATM spokesperson Zama Ntshona. The ATM said it is a fact that former Chief Justice Ngcobo, Justice Masipa, and advocate Mahlape Sello were unanimous in their report, in which they found that there's prima facie evidence that Ramaphosa had violated his oath of office. "The big question is, will advocate Gcaleka and her staff find differently? The ATM eagerly awaits these findings of the Acting PP, advocate Gcaleka on this matter, as her stance and positioning on the matter will, among other things, tell of her commitment to justice prevailing in this country through her office," Ntshona said. The Star