Johannesburg – Another round of fuel price increases is scheduled for February. According to the Automobile Association (AA), petrol, diesel, and illuminating paraffin will be more expensive next month, putting additional financial strain on South Africans who are already strapped for cash. According to the AA, the data shows an increase of about 52 cents per litre for 95 unleaded petrol, an increase of about 57 cents per litre for 93 unleaded petrol, and an increase of 22–33 cents per litre for diesel.The price of illuminating paraffin will climb by around 38 cents a litre. “The data is showing that price increases for international petroleum products are the main driver behind this expected increase to local fuel prices, while the strength of the rand against the US dollar is limiting these increases by between 10 cents and 14 cents on all fuels.” Any increases to fuel prices now, at a time when South Africans are grappling with, among other issues, financial pressures and load shedding, are unwelcome. “We again want to urge the government to revisit the fuel pricing structure with a view to finding ways to mitigate against this and other possible increases in the future,” the AA said. It noted that Minister of Finance Enoch Gondwana would be delivering his Budget speech in Parliament in mid-February and that although he would announce any possible adjustments in February, the actual adjustments would only come into effect in April, at the same time that proposed electricity price adjustments were implemented. “Last year, the minister heeded calls by the AA not to increase the two main levies attached to the petrol and diesel prices: the General Fuel Levy and the Road Accident Fund Levy. “We again urge the minister to follow this same route when he delivers his Budget speech this year and to consider the implications of increasing these taxes on all South Africans,” the AA said.  “Consumers can simply not afford any more price shocks, and considering the impending 18.65% increase to electricity rates, an increase to the levies will deal a massive blow to personal finances.” The AA called on Gondwana to consider the consequences of all increases and the impact these would have on the prices of goods and services. It said increases to the two fuel levies would be counter-productive, ill-timed, and a have disastrous outcome for millions of people already struggling to make ends meet. The Star