Rand Water has threatened to impose water restrictions on top of the current high stages of load shedding if South Africans do not consume water sparingly. The state company issued a statement on Tuesday complaining that the current heat wave was contributing to the high consumption rate of water and affecting water levels in the reservoirs. Some problems had also occurred with load shedding affecting systems at some Rand Water plants over the weekend. “The situation was compounded by the fact that there were multiple power supply failures to the Rand Water systems at the weekend (13 – 15 January 2023). Currently, the organisation is monitoring the water demand to protect the integrity of its systems. If water consumption continues to increase, Rand Water will be compelled to implement water supply restrictions,” said  Rand Water spokesperson Makenosi Maroo. Rand Water has formally requested its customers to monitor water consumption in their respective areas, according to Maroo. Maroo said Rand Water played an important role in the supply of water in Gauteng, parts of the North West and Mpumalanga. Rand Water was also responsible for supplying some private entities. “We are a public entity, and we supply water to municipalities, and intern municipalities supply water to end users. If a customer in a certain area or location, if they have an issue with supply, they will have to contact their municipalities,” Maroo said. Maroo said Rand Water had an agreement in place with Eskom and other entities that supply the company with electricity. The agreement was meant to shield Rand Water from load shedding. But incidents of outages would happen now and then. “We have an agreement with power suppliers that please do not load shed us because we know that water is an essential resource for our primary and secondary stations. Obviously, primary would be where we purify water. If we do not purify, we would not be able to get water.” said Maroo Maroo further said that from time to time, there would be a trip and power outage or a trip resulting in a call to the power supplier. “But for our secondary stations, we do not have an agreement in place, but we have generators in place,” Maroo said. According to Maroo, Rand Water had big plan to expand operations because of the increase in population figures and consumption. Maroo said the summer periods were most critical to look at because this was a time when the biggest amount of water was consumed. Maroo said most of the water South Africa had was from Lesotho. This meant that South Africa did not have an abundant supply of water.