Johannesburg - Twin top achievers Emma and Rachel Jacobs from Crawford’s Ruimsig say their biggest inspiration is their mother. "She motivated us, and even though she's not here with us anymore, she remains our motivation to do our best. And she's the one that taught us how to have a good work ethic and inspires us to be the greatest versions of ourselves," Emma told The Star yesterday. Speaking about their matric year, Rachel described it as a roller-coaster, as there were many ups and downs, and Emma added that they tried their best to celebrate all the highs and to have a positive mindset throughout the lows. These lows tragically included the passing of their mother during their Grade 11 June exams in 2021. Thankfully, the twins said they had a lot of support from their family, teachers, and schoolmates during that difficult time. "We got a lot of support from not only our family but the teachers and students at the school. The teachers especially made sure that we were never too overwhelmed and always helped us if we needed a bit of leeway or we needed an emotional support day. As a family, we just try to be there for one another and support one another on our little victories so that those don't go unnoticed," Emma said. "What helped Emma and me the most is that we had each other, so if one was feeling down, the other person would provide that sort of positive light. And then we'd alternate to make sure that the other one was always okay," Rachel said. "I definitely don't think we wouldn't have been able to do as well as we hoped we did without each other." The twins did exceptionally well, as Rachel obtained six distinctions in Afrikaans, Dramatic Arts, English, Life Orientation, Life Science, and Mathematics, and Emma obtained five distinctions in Afrikaans, English, Life Orientation, Life Science, and Visual Arts. Emma and Rachel, who even studied and revised together because they studied similar subjects, are hoping to attend Tuks this year, where Emma will study dentistry (BchD) because she wants to spread more positivity in the world by helping people with their smile insecurities, and Emma will study medicine (MBCHB) because she wants to be a doctor who discovers new cures for chronic illnesses. The twins advised the class of 2023 to take tests and assignments one at a time. "Take it one day at a time and just do your best in every aspect of our school," they said. The Star