Johannesburg - The ANC has thrown its weight behind minority party leader Thapelo Amad to become the new mayor of the City of Joburg. This comes after DA mayor Mpho Phalatse was voted out of office in a motion of no confidence. Phalatse was removed with 140 votes, with 129 opposing her departure. The spat for the mayoral position was so fierce that Phalatse confirmed that she had received a suitcase on Wednesday afternoon from the Speaker of Council, Colleen Makhubele, with a note telling her to pack up. The Star spoke to the ANC’s provincial secretary Thembinkosi “TK" Nciza, who said the party was supporting Thapelo Amad to become mayor. “We have one candidate, and that is Thapelo Amad. Our aim is for our people to be served,” Nciza said. Nciza said Amad was a brilliant candidate: he was young and would bring new energy to the city. Amad is the chairperson of Al Jama-ah in Johannesburg. He holds a degree in Islamic Studies and has several other tertiary qualifications. The Star understands that Amad would become mayor for the next six months while the ANC resolves its issues with the EFF concerning the governance of Ekurhuleni. According to Nciza, the ANC had a grand plan to seize all the metros from the DA. “This will happen in Ekurhuleni, and Ekurhuleni is now a dirty place; it’s a jungle. The ANC was far better with more experience. We will remove them everywhere they are, no matter what it takes,” Nciza said. On Wednesday, ActionSA presented the view that Phalatse had been thrown under the bus by her own party. The party accused the DA of allowing Phalatse’s political career to end and keeping an arrogant attitude towards coalition partners and the future of the City of Joburg. Phalatse denied that there was tension between herself and DA leader, John Steenhuizen. There were rumours that she would join ActionSA. Some DA members were infuriated when Phalatse danced with ActionSA as they sang Umakoti Ngowetu, which loosely translates, “The Bride is Ours”. The song also alluded to Phalatse’s contentious marriage to ActionSA leader, Brutus Malada. The council is due to meet again today, where Amad is expected to be voted in as mayor. Speaking to The Star, Amad said his election would prove young people were capable of leading. The Star