Johannesburg - One-year-old girl Jasmijn Duvenhage from Die Wilgers, Pretoria, was diagnosed with temporal lobe epilepsy at only four months old after several tests, including an EEG, that measures electrical activity in the brain. The toddler has a rare genetic condition that causes difficulty to control, severe epilepsy, slow development, and low muscle tone. Unfortunately, after starting therapy for temporal lobe epilepsy, Jasmijn’s condition worsened, and she was diagnosed with West syndrome, for which she had received a prolonged course of extremely expensive steroid therapy. However, this was not covered by the family’s medical aid in 2021. “By Jesus’ Mercy and Grace, she came out of West syndrome, a miracle that very few children live to tell about. Unfortunately, Jasmijn developed several forms of horrifying epilepsy ranging from mild episodes to absolutely life-threatening episodes. This happened several times a day,” Jasmijn’s parents said. Her mother, Nadia, has not been able  put her trust in the hands of another health-care provider yet, as Jasmijn has an extremely complex medication and feeding regime. As a result, Nadia formed part of Jasmijn’s therapeutic team and had to stop working to care for her daughter. Unfortunately, this places additional financial strain on the family. Jasmijn has feeble muscle tone, she cannot sit up, turn over, or crawl. She also has trouble moving her head, which necessitates 24-hour monitoring as she also has trouble swallowing her secretions, which has led to several choking episodes with aspiration pneumonia and lung collapses, requiring non-invasive ventilation and admission to paediatric ICU. This is despite the family’s best attempts to manage and prevent these episodes with physiotherapy and suctioning at home. Jasmijn’s family has spent their entire savings and exhausted their medical aid to cover the costs of her medication and purchases such as a wheelchair, bathing equipment, anti-epileptic drugs, rehab sessions, hypoallergenic baby formula and now the ketogenic diet, as well as a special needs car seat. Her parents hope that with the right therapy, she will still have a chance at leading a normal life. Uncontrolled epilepsy remains the problem as every time she has a seizure, it may damage her brain and delay her development further. In a bid to urgently receive financial assistance to help Jasmijn with her medical condition, the Duvenhage family have launched a crowdfunding campaign on BackaBuddy to appeal to the public for much-needed support. Since June 2022, Jasmijn has also been in and out of several paediatric ICUs, battling various infections, due to her poor immune system. The brave little girl even had to spend this past Christmas and new year in the paediatric ICU. To date, about R111 000 has been raised from 47 donors towards their fund-raising target of R250 000 “We are doing everything we can do to make sure that Jasmijn gets the correct medical care. All contributions towards our BackaBuddy campaign will be used to ensure that Jasmijn receives the best therapy,” said Jasmijn’s parents. The Star