Johannesburg - The ANC will continue disciplinary proceedings against several members who voted for the adoption of the Section 89 report concerning the ‘farmgate’ scandal, which threatens the political future of President Cyril Ramaphosa. In a press briefing in Johannesburg on Tuesday, the newly minted secretary-general of the ANC, Fikile Mbalula, indicated that disciplinary proceedings would go ahead against senior party members who did not toe the line during the parliamentary vote for the adoption of the Section 89 report over allegations concerning the robbery on Ramaphosa’s Phala Phala farm. A few days ago, the ANC said the matter would be dealt with by the party’s new NEC, which was appointed at the party’s 55th national conference recently. But yesterday, Mbalula said the matter had been referred to the party’s disciplinary committee. Minister Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, former North West premier Supra Mahumapelo, and former mineral resources minister Mosebenzi Zwane are among those accused of defying the party. There were others who were absent during the vote, like Minister of Tourism Lindiwe Sisulu, and Bongani Bongo. It was not clear if they would face the same fate. All indications were that those who had opposed Ramaphosa on the road to Nasrec 2022 would face persecution and political illumination. Mbalula stressed that the "centre must hold", indicating that the ANC will no longer stand for ill-discipline and members who vote with the opposition. "There are members of the ANC who voted with the opposition; their issue in terms of that matter has been referred to the national disciplinary committee, so that national disciplinary committee will deal with that particular matter. These are members of the ANC who have defied the mandate of the national executive committee, so that matter has been referred to the DC," Mbalula said. Mbalula said the president was thinking about a Cabinet reshuffle. He said this follows the ANC national conference and issues with vacancies in the Cabinet. Some analysts had predicted that the reshuffle would be another way that Ramaphosa could deal with his detractors, while rewarding those who supported his election as ANC president. "Look, we come from a conference, and there are a number of issues that the president has to consider as the head of Cabinet. He does not have to go full-blown reshuffle; even before this conference, there were vacancies in the Cabinet, and the president is going to think about that. If he does not think about that, he would be reckless," Mbalula said. The Star