Johannesburg - Drawing inspiration from the solid support of her mother and sister, Tshwanelo Zanele Mokooe has been recognised as one of the most outstanding pupils at Forte Secondary School in Dobsonville during her matric year. Tshwanelo was named in Gauteng’s top achievers list for obtaining more than five distinctions. She obtained eight distinctions in Setswana home language, English first additional, maths, life orientation, accounting, business studies, life sciences and physical sciences. The enthusiastic 17-year-old said her academic year was colourful, remarking that she fed all the curiosity she had about learning. While others mentioned a few challenges, she said that tackling most of her schoolwork was smooth sailing, and every task motivated her to reach her full potential. “I truly enjoyed my matric year. It effortlessly persuaded me to reach my full potential, although there were obstacles along the way. Life is boring without challenges. “The year showed the importance of being spiritually connected to God and my ancestors. It was also a year I made lifetime connections and memories with my friends. With the genuine love, care and motivational conversations from my Forte Secondary School teachers and my teachers from Kutlwanong Promaths Centre for Mathematics and Science, I was able to conquer all challenges, and I will cherish the roles they played in my high school story,” said Tshwanelo. She was among the top 3 pupils who blossomed in their preliminary examinations. “After I saw my preliminary examination results, I felt like I could walk on air. I was proud of myself as I managed to be consistent with my academics, yet a little sad as I lost only one distinction. The results gave me hope that I might do well in my NSC final examinations.” The pupil told The Star that she wanted to give her mother the finest life she ever imagined. “I aspire to become the first doctor in my family. Dr Mokooe, as I call myself. I dream of giving my mother and sister the best life they can ever have. I dream of living up to my full potential. The efforts that I see my mom investing in me, even if it means sacrificing for me, are what inspire me. “I plan to study for a Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (MBChB) at the University of Cape Town. I plan to become the best in my field and help my fellow brothers and sisters by giving a high-quality health service. I dream of travelling the world and saving millions of lives. I plan to leave no stone unturned, never limit my potential, and follow what my heart feels passionate about. I plan to grow at my own pace. The sky is no longer the limit; remember, there are footprints on the moon.” Tshwanelo expressed appreciation for all the support her family has shown her throughout her academic journey. “My family is the best. Their support, care, and love escalated to a height I never expected. They were present in every downfall and in every high I had throughout the year. My mother, sister and aunt were truly my pillars of strength. They were involved emotionally and financially.” The Star