Johannesburg – The ANC in Johannesburg was discussing electing a mayor from the minority parties should Joburg mayor Mpho Phalatse be voted out of office in a motion of no confidence today (Thursday). The Star understands that because of issues that arose with the City of Ekurhuleni, the ANC wouldn’t be able to field its own candidate for the position until there is some sort of agreement between the party and the EFF over the future of Ekurhuleni.  The EFF was interested in taking the mayoral seat in Ekurhuleni in exchange for the party ensuring that the ANC ascends to the throne in Johannesburg. According to sources, two candidates from minority parties whose names were being tossed around have been Margaret Arnolds, from the African Independent Congress (AIC) and Thapelo Amad, from Al-Jama-ah. Whoever emerges would hold the fort for the ANC until they are able to sort out matters with the EFF. The Star understands that these candidates would be given a time frame of six months to serve as mayor. ANC regional spokesperson Chris Vondo said talks had not been finalised yet between all structures of the ANC on the matter. He said the issue of coalitions was being negotiated at a national and provincial level. "There are a number of options on the table, and those options are being considered by the structures, and when this matter is finalised, the ANC will make its position known. There are a number of options, including the collective governance option, but there are other issues being raised despite these options," he said. Vondo refused to confirm or deny if Arnolds or Amad were being considered for the position of mayoral candidate on the side of the opposition bloc. He said the discussions were sensitive and that the top structures of the party were being consulted. The Star understands that Phalatse is likely to leave office today (Thursday), with the numbers being against her. It has been reported that some in her own party want her out of the top job. There were also rumours that she would join ActionSA after she was voted out of office. The Star