The Minister of Higher Education, Science and Innovation, Dr Blade Nzimande, has wished the 2022 matriculation class well as they await the announcement of their matriculation results. According to the department, Nzimande would like to assure current and prospective students that the announcement and the release of the matriculation results will not affect the state of readiness for the post-school education and training 2023 academic year. “Universities registration for the academic year 2023 commenced from the 16th of January and anticipated to close on the 20th February. However, there will be several universities that will allow late registrations. Prospective students are advised to continue to liaise with the universities of their choice through their communication channels.” added the department. The department also announced that most Technical, Vocational and Training Colleges (TVET) have commenced with their teaching and learning, including practicals, following the successful online registration process. “Some of the colleges are still accepting students in areas where the enrolment targets are not met. The Department’s TVET branch is monitoring the developments at each college. Community Colleges opened on the 11th of January 2023 for inland provinces and opened Wednesday the 18th January 2023 for coastal provinces. Prospective students are advised to go to their colleges of choice for registration for the academic year 2023,” said the department in a statement. The department further stated that in order to assist prospective students, the department has activated the services of the Central Application Clearing House (CACH) to assist individuals to access university, college and skills development opportunities. “The system will open on the 24th of January to the 31st of March, 2023. As part of the Department of Higher Education and Training normal process to work with the sector to prepare for the academic year’s registration process, consultation meetings are currently held with various stakeholders, including the Universities South Africa, (Usaf), the South Africa College Principals Organisation (SACPO), the South African Union of Students (SAUS) and South African Technical and Vocation Student Association (SATVESA),” said the department. Meanwhile, The Star had reported that the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) was not pleased with the Department of Basic Education and the delayed release of matric examination results, which they say has ripple effects on the transition of learners to the post-secondary and training sectors. The party further revealed that the delay also affects planning by families who are unable to proceed with any logistical arrangements relating to their children's post-matriculant stories. “Year after year, the Department of Basic Education finds ways to exhibit incompetence when it relates to matriculants and the handling of the process in its entirety.  “If it's not scandals, such as the leaking of exam papers, which results in cheating or appalling results in schools that perennially under perform with no intervention, it is a blatant failure to synchronise systems to ensure that the results of learners are released before the academic year begins in primary and high schools,” said the EFF.