Johannesburg - The National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (Natjoints) says it has implemented measures to ensure that the State of the Nation Address (Sona) takes place in a safe and secure environment at the Cape Town City Hall on Thursday, February 9. Natjoints comprises various government departments, including the SAPS, the South African National Defence Force (SANDF), and the State Security Agency (SSA). According to a Natjoiints statement, integrated and joint law enforcement operations were under way, and law enforcement officers have been deployed and are on high alert to ensure that the Sona takes place in a secure environment with no incidents of crime before, during, or after the  event. "To this end, Natjoints is calling for the co-operation of the public, including those who will be in attendance as well as spectators." "Any action aimed at disrupting the Sona or intentionally contravening the law will be dealt with accordingly within the ambit of the law," read the statement. According to Natjoints, it has also directed all law enforcement agencies securing the Sona to execute their duties according to their constitutional mandate and within relevant prescriptions. "In relation to aviation security, a notice to all airmen has been issued by the Civil Aviation Authority, which restricts the airspace within 1.5 nautical miles from the Cape Town City Hall on February 9, 2023, between 1pm and midnight." "Only the SA Air Force will have flexible use of airspace during this period. Please note that this is strictly a no-fly zone for drones. The airspace restrictions will also be in place during the Parliamentary debate and presidential reply on February 14-16 as well as during the Budget Speech, on the February 22," added the statement The integrated structure also said that residents of Cape Town, spectators and  those operating businesses in the vicinity of the Cape Town City Hall  were advised about road closures ahead of the delivery of the Sona. "It is important to emphasise that those who are not accredited or authorised to be in attendance should avoid the area around the Cape Town City Hall on Thursday, February 9, 2023," read the statement. The Star