Johannesburg - With cancer identified as one of the largest public health threats facing the world today, BD Country Manager for Africa Ian Wakefield shares essential points about cancer that women need to take note of. Despite the high death rate each year, Wakefield believes cancer is still relatively misunderstood and not often discussed. He says spreading understanding about cancer is close to his heart, which is why he feels it is fundamental for him to ensure that everyone is aware of the disease and ways people can prevent and screen for it. Wakefield is a medical scientist by training and has completed his undergraduate and postgraduate studies at the University of Cape Town. He has extensive experience working in the healthcare sector in Africa and has built a rich career within the pharmaceutical and medical research fields. In a conversation with The Star, Wakefield delves into vital details about cervical cancer, risks and key epidemiology facts, prevention, vaccination against HPV, the benefits of early screening and how it is done, the connection to other diseases, including HIV and other cancers and women’s health more broadly, and the role of HPV in screening. "I really think that one important thing to note about cervical cancer is awareness. If you are in a lower middle-income country, as a woman, you are most likely to contract cervical cancer than in a high-income country. If you are a woman living with HIV, you are six times more likely to have cervical cancer. One of the key things are for women to understand the risks." Wakefield, who also advocates for access to quality health care, says awareness should not be a one-day event marking only special days. "A lot more can be done to inform women about how to engage with doctors early. We speak about breast cancer and cervical cancer and the introduction of screening programs. When we speak about breast cancer, we often think about pink, and it is advertised and promoted at sporting events." Addressing the area of education, understanding risks, and having screening programmes are pivotal things that he says he wishes to change in Africa. He goes on to say that early detection makes it treatable, which encourages women to get early screenings. "Access to quality health care for any patient and cervical cancer awareness should not stop with cervical month." The Star