Johannesburg - Bothongo Rhino & Lion Nature Reserve is a privately owned game reserve located in the Cradle of Humankind World Heritage Site, 45 minutes’ drive from Johannesburg. The reserve offers guided game drives and walks with experienced guides who provide information about the animals, birds and plants. There’s nothing quite like the thrill of getting up close and personal with our incredible animals. Booking is essential for these activities. If you prefer to do things at your own pace, then the self-drive is for you. A pack of African wild dogs, a pride of lion, a dazzle of zebra – you never know what you might come across when you explore the vast expanse of land that makes up the reserve. The reserve is known for its live lion, cheetah and African wild dog feeding at the Predator Camp on Wednesdays, Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays at 1pm. A live reptile show at the Day Visitor’s Centre can also be viewed at 3pm on the above days. The reserve also features swimming pools and a braai area with a kiosk that offers refreshments and braai grids for rent. The Neck & Deck Restaurant is located close to the main gate and offers a reduced à la carte menu, as well as wheelchair accessibility. The Thatch Café is located next to The Cradle Bike Park and offers a refreshing drink and tasty snacks. Overlooking the Predator Camp, you’ll find five fully equipped log cabins. These self-catering units also boast a large lounge and dining room areas, as well as spacious braai facilities. The hot tub on the veranda is the perfect spot to enjoy a glass of wine as the sun sets. Our chalets are self-catering units nestled in the middle of the reserve. The rest camp in which they are found consists of three fully equipped chalets that sleep up to four adults. Only gas appliances and solar lighting are used. These cosy units are perfect for a quick getaway from city life. Visit our website to book now using the discount code – TheStar02, SundayIndependent02 to qualify for a 20% discount. The Star