Johannesburg - Three suspects were fatally wounded and two others were critically injured after a high-speed chase and shoot-out with a law enforcement team on Wednesday morning.  According to the Hawks, the Gauteng Traffic Saturation Unit, Ekurhuleni District trio tracing, Tracker Connect, Vision Tactical and Bad Boyz Security followed up on information received about suspects who were allegedly involved in shopping mall robberies, courier robberies and other serious violent crimes. “It is alleged that the suspects had just committed a shopping mall robbery near Carnival City where they overpowered security guards,” said Hawks spokesperson Colonel Katlego Mogale.  The gang made off with good from the store…VIDEO https://t.co/WAX9gNGlGC pic.twitter.com/bshNryNYSn According to Mogale, a lookout was given for a silver VW Touareg and a blue BMW allegedly involved in the robbery.  “The vehicle was picked up on the R21 Highway northbound. An operational plan was executed in an attempt to stop the suspects’ vehicle. The suspects tried to evade police and a high-speed chase ensued,” Mogale said.  “The suspects opened fire on members upon realising that police have picked up their vehicles and members returned fire, bringing the suspects’ vehicle to a halt after colliding into a barrier.” Three suspects in the vehicle were fatally wounded and the others two were taken to hospital in a critical condition for medical attention. Law enforcement recovered three unlicensed firearms, ammunition and cargo in the Touareg.  “Preliminary investigation established that the VW SUV was reported robbed from owner in January as per Brooklyn case and one of the firearms was reported as stolen as per Isipingo case. The second vehicle was picked en route to Mamelodi by the Tshwane K9 unit,” Mogale said.  Four suspects were detained and law enforcement took the suspects to their residence where more stock was found. Three vehicles, a BMW 1 series, a Toyota Corolla and a VW Jetta, were also seized on the scene. The suspects will be appearing in court soon for attempted murder, possession of suspected stolen property, armed robbery and possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition.  The Star