Johannesburg - The IFP has come out guns blazing, dismissing explosive allegations by the EFF, which alleged that there is a political plot to kill its secretary-general, Marshall Dlamini. Yesterday, the EFF alleged that it was approached by SAPS intelligence, which informed it that there were IFP senior leaders planning a political assassination on Dlamini amid a breakdown of the coalition between the two parties. IFP national spokesperson Mkhuleko Hlengwa said the EFF believed it could force the IFP to hand over municipalities. “The IFP was unwilling to betray the trust of the communities that voted for us,” Hlengwa said. KwaZulu-Natal has been known in the past for bloodbaths due to political killings; this has alarmed the EFF, which said it received this intelligence report unprovoked. EFF national spokesperson Sinawo Thambo said the reliable intelligence reports illustrate that senior leaders of the IFP believe that Dlamini is responsible for the collective decision they took to initiate and support motions of no confidence against IFP mayors in several municipalities in KZN. “The EFF condemns with contempt the plots to assassinate our secretary-general or any leader for selfish and narrow political purposes. We do not take these reports lightly because the province of KZN has been defined by many political assassinations for a very long time, a habit which the EFF has never been associated with and has condemned since our formation 10 years ago,” Thambo said. He added: “When IFP members recurrently, stubbornly and physically disrupted meetings of the EFF in different parts of KZN in 2014, the leadership of the EFF organised a meeting with the leadership of the IFP under its former president Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi and agreed that violence cannot and should never be an instrument of political persuasion.” Thambo said at the 2016 Local Government Elections it was primarily the EFF that played a leading role in ensuring that the IFP participated in the government of the City of Joburg. Thambo said after the 2021 Local Government Elections, the EFF played a central role in voting against the ANC and establishing IFP-led governments in several municipalities in KZN. “When we decided to actively participate in government, we convened cordial meetings with the leadership of the IFP and communicated our decision. “We respect the IFP’s decision to not support the establishment of EFF governments in different municipalities in KZN, hence our logical and rational decision to vote out IFP governments wherever we previously voted for them,” he said. Thambo said the EFF was strongly opposed to the use of violence and assassinations as a method to settle political differences. “We as the EFF will do everything in our power and within our capacity to protect Dlamini against agent provocateurs and agents of apartheid who only thrive through violence or threats of violence,” Thambo said. The party called on law-enforcement agencies to thoroughly investigate those behind the plot and arrest them with immediate effect. Thambo said the SAPS must not care who is behind the assassination plots but act decisively regardless of the seniority of the plotters. “We call on the IFP, its leaders and its members to desist from using violence as a mechanism of settling political differences. South Africa is entering an age where political parties will from time to time disagree on how governments are constituted at local, provincial and national levels, and violence cannot and should not be used as a weapon for narrow and selfish political purposes,” Thambo said. Hlengwa said the EFF woke South Africa up with what he called “another dose of sensationalist, unsubstantiated and fabricated allegations”. “Where we must warn the EFF, however, is when it begins pressing on the old wounds of our people with no regard for the pain that this causes. The allegations are inflammatory and dangerous politicking. They have produced nothing whatsoever to back this serious claim, which the IFP now demands be investigated by SAPS. If SAPS genuinely knew of an assassination plot and knew who was plotting it, they would have made arrests.” Hlengwa said the EFF’s latest political stunt of removing itself from co-governance with the IFP did not yield the results it had hoped for. The EFF recently ended its agreements with the IFP in municipalities throughout KZN. The EFF was offered eThekwini Metro by the IFP. The IFP claimed that the EFF wished to govern uMhlathuze Municipality. “They believed they could force the IFP into a position to hand over municipalities, but the IFP was unwilling to betray the trust of the communities that voted for us. Now that their plans have backfired, the EFF is making wild, unfounded and extremely dangerous accusations against the IFP,” he said. Hlengwa dismissed the claim contained in a media statement by EFF that its leadership “organised” a meeting with the leadership of the IFP in 2014 because IFP members were disrupting EFF meetings. “In 2014, EFF leader Julius Malema met the IFP’s founder, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, to apologise for the stupid things he had said while campaigning for the ANC when he was still ‘prepared to take up arms and kill for Zuma’. Malema insulted Prince Buthelezi and threatened his wife and children. But when he jumped ship from the ANC and realised that the EFF would get nowhere in KwaZulu-Natal after insulting Buthelezi, Malema was quick to come and say sorry. ‘I am happy that I got the chance to retract (my insults) and apologise to His Excellency’, he told the cameras,” Hlengwa said. He said now that these political opportunists realise that the IFP is the biggest challenger in KZN for 2024, they have returned to their “own vomit”. “Suddenly, the IFP, with whom they happily worked until we refused to hand over governance of Umhlathuze, is an ‘agent of apartheid’ that ‘only thrives through violence’. “How can anyone trust a leadership that changes its mind at the drop of a hat? Whatever it says today will be contradicted tomorrow. The IFP will thus not be surprised when the EFF comes to us again after 2024 to apologise for the stupid things it is saying now, in the hope of strengthening its hand,” Hlengwa said. The SAPS national office told The Star that no briefing was given to the EFF. “The SAPS is not aware of any briefing given to the EFF, but in the main, we do not discuss the safety, security and threat assessments of individuals in the public domain,” said SAPS spokesperson Brigadier Athlenda Mathe. The Star