Johannesburg - Political analysts are questioning the reason for President Cyril Ramaphosa’s delay in announcing a Cabinet reshuffle. It is unknown yet when Ramaphosa will make the announcement. ANC deputy president Paul Mashatile did not allow the media to press him when questioned about the imminent Cabinet reshuffle by Ramaphosa and his predecessor, David Mabuza, who over the weekend announced that he had resigned as deputy president of the ANC and the country. Mashatile, along with second deputy secretary-general Maropene Ramokgopa, former City of Joburg executive mayor Parks Tau, and former KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala, were sworn in yesterday at a ceremony, with National Assembly Speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakule presiding over the proceedings. The newly sworn-in MPs made a brief appearance before the media, wearing big smiles on their faces. “We are ready to serve; as you can see, we have just been sworn in. We will serve with dignity and respect,” said Mashatile. Despite reports that Mashatile will replace Mabuza as the deputy president of the country, he simply said he did not know much. “As far as I know, Mabuza is still the deputy president. The last time I saw him, he was the deputy president of the country,” said Mashatile. Mabuza, at the burial of his brother, announced that he had resigned and had communicated this with President Ramaphosa, and they had an agreement. Mabuza also said the decision to resign was to make way for Mashatile, who was elected as ANC deputy president at the party’s 55th national elective conference in December. Ramaphosa’s spokesperson, Vincent Magwenya, confirmed on Sunday that Mabuza had expressed his desire to step down from the position after the outcome of the governing party’s leadership elections last year. “However, Ramaphosa has requested that Mabuza remain in his role until such time as the modalities of his departure and transition have been finalised,” Magwenya said. According to ANC chief whip Pemmy Majodina, Mabuza is still the country’s deputy president, according to her knowledge. “The president is yet to reshuffle if he does so. So far we don’t know any person going anywhere… for what …” Majodina said. She said she was in touch with Mabuza, but at the end of the day, Ramaphosa would decide. She said they knew of his intentions to leave the government. “I have met with him several times, so we are waiting for the president to deliver a note or not. The president is busy with the mining indaba and preparing for the State of the Nation Address. Let him finish, and then maybe after Sona he will be able to give us a new programme of what is going to happen in the Cabinet,” Majodina said. Dr Mazwe Majola, a leadership expert, said the waiting is unnecessary because it causes enormous instability, confusion and uncertainty, because not only the country is waiting with bated breath to see who is in or out. He guessed that even the Cabinet ministers themselves want to know if they are going to keep the ministry or not. “I don’t see any reason why the president should delay the announcing of the Cabinet reshuffle even after the State of the Nation Address. I mean he should do it before that so that people may know who is in and who is out and they know what to do moving forward,” said Majola. Former ANC national executive committee (NEC) member Dr Mathole Serofo Motshekga, speaking in an interview with one of the broadcasters, said the president has to take into account the stability of the government and the continuity of programmes that are going on. “An  abrupt removal of a deputy president can have serious implications for the programme that are ongoing regarding which the deputy president has hands on. It has to do with his understanding of the workings of government and the importance of stability in government,” said Motshekga. Political analyst Thembisa Fakude, also speaking in an interview with a broadcaster, said there have been calls daily in the country for a government reshuffle. He said the reshuffle also means that the deputy president has to be replaced. “Him (Ramaphosa) dragging his feet as he is known for a due diligence man is not making it easy for us as observers and the general public. People want to see movement. There’s a lot of problems in this country, and dragging the government’s feet in terms of reshuffling and replacing certain Cabinet ministers is really keeping a lot of us in checkout,” Fakude said. The Star