Johannesburg - Political fugitive and former Botswana President Ian Khama says South African authorities are yet to be furnished with an extradition letter for his return to the country of his birth. Khama said he fears not being given a fair trial, adding that being tried in South Africa would give him an opportunity to prove, once and for all, that all the allegations against him are fabricated and false. He also added that his brother, Tshekedi Khama, will be the one representing him in establishing talks with current Botswana President, Mokgweetsi Masisi, about a potential return to his home country. Khama was speaking during an interview with the SABC this past weekend following reports that Botswana President Masisi was considering extending an olive branch to the self-exiled former statesman. “It is true what they told you. But let us not stop at saying there is nothing, but let us rather say there is nothing yet, because they still may apply to the South African authorities for an extradition. As you know, I have said that if it does happen, for me, it would be a blessing in disguise because it would give that opportunity to expose a mutual jurisdiction in South Africa to what I have been subjected to,” Khama told SABC. Khama, who is wanted by law enforcement agencies in Botswana, has reportedly been living in South Africa since 2021. Khama is reportedly facing more than 14 charges, including unlawful possession of a firearm, receiving stolen property and money laundering. The former president is reportedly living in Durban after skipping Botswana in November 2021. He said even though he has faith in the country’s justice system, he has reservations about whether he will be given a fair trial. “If I was to go back to Botswana, would I get a fair trial? Because whilst I believe the majority of our judicial officials serve justice and are very credible people and are embarking on their work, there are a few that have been compromised, and I have proof of that as well. I would be able to prove that the charges are fabricated and false. With the aspect of going back home and being extradited, I will be able to demonstrate that if I were to do that, I would be subjected to harm, and I have proof of that,“ he said. He said for the purpose of finding a solution to his alleged crimes and exile, he has made his brother available to kick-start the process of negotiating with President Masisi. Last week Tuesday, Khama took to social media to claim that he had received calls claiming that Masisi had recently adopted a reconciliatory tone toward him. “I have been receiving a number of calls and messages informing me about remarks that President Masisi is said to have made recently. He is quoted as saying that he hopes, one day, he and I can find common ground. I believe there were other remarks he made along the same lines. Previous attempts by others with whom I cooperated have all failed.  “So in response to his public statement, let me publicly respond by saying that I have asked my brother, Honourable Tshekedi Khama, to return to Botswana and meet with President Masisi or whoever the President may appoint to meet with him in order to commence the processes of reconciliation in ours and the nation's interest,“ Khama said. Late last year, a Gaborone regional court issued a warrant of arrest against Khama, who is facing at least 14 charges, including illegal firearms and money laundering. In April last year, Khama failed to appear before Broadhurst Magistrate’s Court with his co-accused after he was summoned to appear for the resumption of his case. The Institute of Democracy and Transformation recently called for Khama to return to his home country and face up to his crimes. The Star