Johannnesburg - Popular musician Toss, real name Pholoso Masombuka, shares thrilling details about his new deal as a brand ambassador and his plans to be a global star. He says inking a deal as an ambassador with the popular alcohol brand, Billiato, was a dream come true for him, as he had always wanted to work with Cassper Nyovest. Masombuka was animated to share that partnering with a South African black-owned product was a major success for him. “I was excited; it’s always been a dream to work with Cassper Nyovest, and for it to happen through one of his biggest brands is a big deal for me. “The idea of a South African black-owned product partnering with a South African black artist, that’s history and we both artists… that will change a lot in the industry and inspire kids coming up from the townships to see anything is possible.” The Umlando  hitmaker says the new deal means growth for him, and working with Nyovest has taught him a lesson to never limit himself. “It means growth for me and my brand; we’re only going up from here. Cass shows me to never limit myself, to always strive to be the best in my field, to remain humble, and to look out for the people I love,” said Masombuka. Asked how the response had been since the announcement of their partnership, he said his fans were also elated about the deal. “Everyone is proud of me, and my fans are excited about the partnership; we already have fans buying Billiato since the announcement.” Speaking about his hopes for the future, he says he wants to thrive and be a global artist. “A different side of me musically; more crazy campaigns with Billiato, big shows. I just want to see myself as a global artist in two years, with growth for Billiato and myself.” Nyovest also took to social media to make the announcement, revealing that he was excited to be working with him. “A year ago, we started a brand. A brand that speaks to the dreamers, the doers and the groundbreakers. A brand that leads and not follows. A brand that inspires hope and a brand that affirms that indeed black excellence is to be celebrated. Today, we would like to welcome and celebrate @indabakabani as our very first brand ambassador. Welcome to the family. We are excited to be working with you and creating with you,” shared Nyovest. The Star