President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to deliver the eagerly awaited State of the Nation Address (Sona) tonight, where he will outline interventions to unlock development interventions for the coming financial year. As thousands of South Africans wait with bated breath for this major address, the EFF has publicly vowed to disrupt it. Taking to social media, the EFF says they will not be addressed by a constitutional offender. "On the 9th of February 2023, Cyril Ramaphosa will not address that Parliament peacefully. We will not be addressed by a constitutional delinquent," the party tweeted. This week has seen a slew of demands and expectations from different political parties and organisations directed at Ramaphosa. ATM president Vuyo Zungula is one of the leaders who spoke about promises that were never fulfilled by Ramaphosa. "In his address, Mr Ramaphosa hit all the right notes and spoke about the creation of jobs, factories, roads, houses, and clinics. Instead, he personally was found in an embarrassingly unethical situation, where it's now common cause that he was found to have hidden millions of US Dollars under his mattresses and stuffed some in the sofas. President Mandela is probably turning in his grave out of embarrassment," said Zungula. ActionSA president Herman Mashaba also spoke about the State of the Nation Address (Sona), pointing out that it is a continuation of empty promises. He says three decades after the democratic transition, SA remains defined by Apartheid-era spatial planning, unequal access to quality education, unreliable services, dysfunctional infrastructure, and a growing gap between the rich and poor. "Over the past three years, South Africa and the rest of the world have endured pain and suffering unlike that which we have experienced for a very long time." "The Covid pandemic ushered in an era of unprecedented economic hardship, exacerbating the impact of South Africa’s slow economic growth over the past decade and exposing the depth of corruption of a morally bankrupt government."