Johannesburg - As the countdown begins to celebrate the universal day of love, Valentine’s Day, most people are thrilled to go the extra mile to express their love and appreciation to their loved ones. The Soirée by Stella Artois is the perfect way to celebrate this day. In this, the third instalment of The Soirée, event goers can expect a stellar music line-up with a distinctive Afro-soul lean and love at the centre of all things lyrical, including Sama award-winning artists Elaine; Lloyiso; Amanda Black; and AKA; as well as house DJ Marcus Harvey; DJ Loveslavephola; DJ and mixologist Mmisology; and funk DJ Sumthin Brown. “I can’t wait to perform at The Soirée, which has become an important platform for bringing people together for deep and meaningful connections. I can’t wait to share my latest body of work, and what better place to do so than in the month of love?” says Lloyiso. Lloyiso has been working on a new collaboration with Grammy Award-winning UK electronic group Clean Bandit, which is expected to be released soon.  Having recently returned from the US (where her face adorned billboards in New York’s Times Square), Elaine is also currently working on her debut album. Toadbury Hall Hotel, with its mature trees and expansive country lawns, is an exceptional setting for The Soirée – Lovers’ Edition’s other lifestyle elements, which include an artisanal food experience with hand-crafted culinary offerings such as Frites Artois (crisp Belgian fries), Argentinian BBQ, prawns, oysters, sushi, braai food, and Asian bao dumplings, not to mention Stella draught and cocktails. In collaboration with the eatery The Lucky Bread Company, The Stella Deli will also afford guests the opportunity to pre-order picnic baskets for two online or purchase them on the day. The deli will have a variety of cheeses, dried and cold meats, artisanal bread, spreads, and exotic fruits to choose from, as well as a dessert section and Stella merchandise on sale, from cutting boards to aprons, caps, and limited-edition shopping bags. The iconic Stella Artois chalices (which can be engraved with personal messaging on the day) will also be available. “Valentine’s Day is a wonderful reminder to care more for those we love, whether it’s your partner, friends, or family. We want this edition of The Soirée to be just that: a place where we can slow down, connect with each other, and share the enjoyment of great music and delicious food. That’s what The Life Artois is all about,” says Estee Burger, marketing manager at Stella Artois. The Star