Johannesburg - As the music industry prepares for the prestigious 65th Annual Grammy Awards, renowned local music icon Zakes Bantwini has jetted off to the awards ceremony, which will air live from the Crypto.com Arena on Sunday, February. The Osama hitmaker got a nod for a Grammy in the category of “Best Global Music Performance”, a nomination he shares with Nomcebo Zikode and Wouter Kellerman for their single, Bayethe. The award is presented to recording artists who have demonstrated excellence in the burgeoning field of global music. “I’m delighted — and very proud — to have been nominated for this award, especially as it recognises music that has its roots in indigenous traditions,” says Zakes Bantwini. Sibo Mhlungu, a long-time friend, spoke fondly about Bantwini. “I’m humbled by the success Bantwini has achieved and by the role he’s playing in bringing local music to the global stage. And, of course, I want to see him holding his very own Grammy up high,” Mhlungu said. Bantwini and his promotional team from Grid Worldwide, a specialist agency that builds brands by giving them meaning, have a packed schedule ahead of them. As part of the week-long festivities that precede the Grammys, the organisers hosted several talks and discussion sessions dealing with the global music business and trends in global music. These included a series of panel discussions called Backstage Pass, which give aspirant stars a glimpse into life backstage and what it is like to work in the music industry. The Imali  hitmaker also took part in a panel discussion on the latest developments in global music, hosted by Grid Worldwide Joint CEO Adam Byars, alongside other local personalities including SA music radio host TBO Touch; Bathu Sneakers founder and businessman Theo Baloyi and local music executive Sibo Mhlungu. “This is a great moment for all of us and a great moment for South African music. Indigenous music from countries around the world is finally being recognised for the vital role it’s always had to play in popular music,” said Byars. Byars, who has worked in multiple countries around the world, brings with him an in-depth understanding of cultural nuances and complexities and is dedicated to facilitating the growth of the South African music industry, especially through his work with the global music and entertainment platform, the 608 Festival. “The Global Music Panel Discussion will shine an all-important light on the South African music industry and its future just as global music shifts gears and moves into an entirely different dimension. Not only will it inform the way the world sees the South African music industry, but it will also deliver unique insights into future trends, up-and-coming artists to look out for, and the place global music has to play as a category that defies definition,” he said. Notes and ideas from each panellist will be shared in a Global Music Panel Discussion Report. The discussion was also live-streamed on YouTube. The Star