Johannesburg - Botswana authorities are said to have evidence linking former Botswana President Ian Khama to a web of illegal activities including murder, corruption, money laundering and illegal dealing in foreign currency to countries such as Cyprus and Switzerland. On Tuesday, Khama who is a political fugitive and a wanted person in Botswana said he is prepared to go back home and meet with current Botswana President Mokgweetsi Masisi. Khama, is wanted by law enforcement agencies has been reportedly living in South Africa since 2021 where he remains in hiding following a litany of charges including unlawfully owning fire arms. It has been reported that the head of state former enjoys protection from South African government and is facing more than 14 charges including unlawful possession of a firearm to receiving stolen property and money laundering. He was not available for comment but spoke through a brief statement he posted on his social media platforms. In a recent interview with ENCA, Khama, who has branded himself to be an environmentalist confirmed  that “some of the some of the guns” were for hunting but was unable to divulge what the other guns in his possession were used for. Even though he admitted to being prepared to meet with Masisi, he did not indicate whether he is willing to face crimes he has been accused of following his failure to appear in court last year after skipping the country for South Africa. He said he has requested that his brother initiates a meeting between himself and Masisi. Khama is facing 14 charges including allegations of money laundering and handling stolen property. The warrant issued is only for the possession of five illegal firearms. Several NGOs in South Africa are said to be in the process of engaging in  a convention this coming weekend to discuss the threat of keeping Khama in the country. Yesterday, the Institute of Democracy and Transformation submitted a letter to the National Prosecuting Authority and the Department of Justice and Correctional Services relaying the allegations on Khama’s possession of illegal firearms. In his statement, Khama added that he hopes his request for meeting will bear fruit after learning of Masisi's change of attitude towards him. “I have been receiving a number of calls and messages informing me about remarks that President Masisi is said to have made recently. He is quoted as saying that he hopes one day he and I can find common ground. I believe there were other remarks he made along the same lines. Previous attempts by others, with whom I cooperated, have all failed. So in response to his public statement, let me publicly respond by saying that I have asked my brother, Honourable Tshekedi Khama, to return to Botswana and meet with President Masisi or whoever the President may appoint to meet with him, in order to commenced the processes of reconciliation in ours and the nation's interest,” Khama said. According to a report by a Botswana journalist for Meegi Online, Tsaone Basimanebo might soon extend an olive branch following a recent public address with Botswana Members of Parliament. Masisi’s tone was more reconciliatory. When addressing democrats during the welcome ceremony for the Member of Parliament for Shoshong, Aubrey Lesaso who was a BNF member of the Umbrella for Democratic Change (UDC), Masisi urged members of his party to desist from fuelling hatred and dislike between him and Khama. “It must be noted that I wish that one day I and my president Ian Khama could talk and forgive each other,” Basimanebo said. It is reported that Masisi said Khama is still his president and urged other parliamentarians to desist from attacking him. “He is still my president. I supported him fully during his tenure. I do not believe in hate and today I encourage our members to desist or stop spreading hate speeches or telling untruths because it causes war amongst us,” Masisi is quoted as saying. Late last year, a Gaborone regional court issued a warrant of arrest against Khama, who is facing at least 14 charges, including of illegal firearms and money laundering. In April last year, Khama failed to appear before Broadhurst Magistrate’s Court with his co-accused after he was summoned to appear for the resumption of his case. The Institute of Democracy and Transformation recently called for Khama to return to his home country and face up to his crimes said it would take up the matter through the courts in a bid to see the former Botswana president tried in his own country. The institute told The Star it intended to go to court to ensure Khama was returned to Botswana. “We are not going to harbour fugitives in South Africa. We didn’t allow it with al-Bashir, and we’re not going to allow it with Ian Khama.” The Star