Johannesburg - The mayor of the Midvaal Municipality, Peter Teixeira, said he was grateful to the staff of the municipality, who ensured the municipality received a clean audit for the ninth time in a row. Midvaal Local Municipality has received its ninth unqualified opinion audit outcome for the 2021/2022 financial year. This was officially announced by the Auditor-General during the first Council meeting for 2023. The municipality was audited on its financial statements, performance management, internal controls, and compliance efficiency. The Auditor-General announced that the municipality was able to provide financial records that were valid, with no material findings or misrepresentations. "I think that there is political will to serve, and there is a strong system that we have placed to ensure that there is accountability. We have dedicated employees that ensure that ratepayers' monies are accounted for," Teixeira said. Teixeira said the Midvaal has proven that if the municipal administration is strong, political instability cannot affect service delivery. He said the municipality was able to keep politics out of service delivery. Although the Midvaal is completely DA-run and there is no coalition government there. "That is what also sets us apart. I am a politician, and I do not interfere in the duties of the municipal manager. Our employees are not allowed to bring politics into the running of the municipality," he said. Teixeira bemoaned the state of municipalities around Gauteng. He proposed a forum for mayors, where ideas can be exchanged with a view to sharing ideas and improving the systems of running municipalities. "There is something that we can share with our neighbours—a forum where mayors can get together annually—and we too can learn from others," he said. The Auditor General found that there was credible information provided in relation to the municipality’s performance management. Further to this, money was spent in accordance with the law and the regulations that govern public funds. "The Auditor-General report also found that the internal controls and compliance management systems within the municipality were effective," he said. The municipality had achieved a 95% collection rate. Teixeira said he had been the mayor for only a year, so this proved that with a dedicated staff and political will, service delivery can take place. "The clean audit outcome is a testament to all the efforts and hard work of our dedicated staff members and public representatives," he said. The Star