Johannesburg -Johannesburg has been declared one of the worst places to live after landing in the bottom 10 of the Quality of Life Index for three years in a row. This is according to data analysed by MoneyTransfers.com, an online money transfer company. "With a quarter of respondents unhappy with the cost of public transport, over a third seeing the local job market negatively, and a whopping 62% feeling unsafe (compared to 9% globally), the city has continued to slide down to the bottom 10 since 2019," the data found. The MoneyTransfer.com data showed that Joburg isn’t alone at the bottom, as, surprisingly, Frankfurt, in Germany, and Paris, in France, form part of the bottom three in the index, with the French capital particularly lacking in affordability—71% of respondents say housing costs are too high, compared to 43% globally, and 62% say the general cost of living is too high, compared to 35% around the world. Around the top of the charts, according to the data from 2022, is Mexico, with nods to its friendly population, as the country comes first for local friendliness, ease of settling in, finding friends, culture, and welcome. "Valencia beat Dubai in second and Mexico City in third, with both cities offering their own unique benefits for expats. However, Dubai tops the world charts on the Expat Essentials Index, which judges cities based on digital life, admin topics, housing, and language. "Interestingly, Dubai has climbed a spot from 3rd to 2nd from its ranking in 2021’s index, while Mexico City has also risen from 8th to its current position in 3rd. Valencia, however, did not even come in the top 10 in 2021, showing a huge improvement for expats and potential expats this year," according to the data. MoneyTransfer.com CEO Jonathan Merry said taking the leap and beginning a new journey in another country is exciting, with so much to look forward to—from making new friends to discovering a different culture, cuisine, and lifestyle. "But it’s so important to do your groundwork and ensure you’ll be able to cope financially, as being an expat isn’t always easy. Getting your personal finances in order is key to enjoying life abroad—that way, you can focus on the finer things," said Merry. The Star