Johannesburg - Esteemed music duo Zoë Modiga and Mandisi Dyantyis are starting their 2023 on a high note after the announcement of the production of their debut joint show set to celebrate life, love, and living for another on February 11 at Constitutional Hill. Modiga and Dyantyis expressed excitement as they prepared to deliver a stellar performance on the same stage for the first time. “I’ve admired Mandisi for many years and enjoyed all he has been sharing about the human condition through song. Being able to take him in, in his message, his compositions, and his calling, has been a beautiful ride,” said Modiga. “When the BandaBanda Agency brought up the idea of us doing a joint show to open up the year, I was thrilled. I consider it my birthday gift as a February baby, and I know we will co-create something impactful and honest with the audience. His music is deeply affirming and speaks too much of what I hope to affirm in people as well.” BandaBanda, who is a producer, commented about the joint show: “We will be singing along to the music of the people by our people. We aim to celebrate each other and embrace the differences that make us unique and special. We will have other supporting acts whom we will announce soon.” Modiga, who is highly regarded as a compelling artist, also challenges the status quo and is steadily creating an immortal legacy of cultural impact through music, fashion, and storytelling. She has also collaborated with some of the world's finest musicians, including Ladysmith Black Mambazo, Johnny Clegg, Abigail Kubeka, Thandiswa Mazwai, Simphiwe Dana, Madala Kunene, Louis Maholo, Tshepo Tshola, Wynton Marsalis, and many more. Dyantyis, who is an Afro-soul-jazz artist, has also been making waves in the entertainment industry. The Cwaka hitmaker was highlighted by getting a nod for the Mzantsi Jazz Awards and the African Music Awards (AFRIMAs) in the "Best Jazz Artist category." Following the success of his debut album, he has performed at the Summer Silo Concerts, the J&B Met, and sold out at the Grahamstown Jazz Festival, and since sold out every club and mini-festival booking. He has performed at the following festivals: Spier Encounters Festival, Grahamstown Arts Festival, V&A Waterfront Summer Concerts, Joburg International Big Band Festival, Woordfees, Cape Town Folk and Acoustic Music Festival, and Cape Town International Jazz Festival. The Star