Johannesburg - After winning the prestigious PlatAfrica jewellery design and manufacturing competition, Lungile Xhwantini is enthusiastic to show his exquisite artistry to the world. Xhwantini designed a platinum bracelet titled “Sacred Shackle” under the theme “Men of Platinum”, which he explained symbolises resilience, courage and emotional strength to overcome life’s challenges as shackles hold, tug, and anchor structures together. The master goldsmith at The Platinum Incubator had more triumphs to note. “I won the 2020 PlatAfrica Awards competition. The design was all about men, the design was ‘Men of Platinum’, and they tried to break it down to a point of depicting the kind of person we want to design it for.” With all the support that he has amassed, which has helped him thrive in his work, he said he hopes to be recognised internationally. “My hope going forward is to be internationally recognised. That is my main aim. Yes, I am trying to put my footprint in South Africa, but the main goal is to be recognised internationally,” he said. “I wanted to push my limits and see what I can do, and encourage other fellow entrepreneurs or trainees that this is a competition that anyone can enter.” He will be heading to India, where all winners will be exposed to international trends and techniques while being assisted with skills development and networking in the world’s fastest-growing platinum jewellery products. Fahmida Smith, market development principal at Anglo American Platinum, said: “PlatAfrica is a demonstration of our commitment to re-imagine mining to improve people’s lives –in this case, exposing the talented and dynamic selection of winners to much greater possibilities with their creative talents. The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic prevented us from being able to provide this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity of a visit to India for our winners, and I am glad that we can now revive the trip and the access to incredible learnings and opportunities that it will provide.” Pallavi Sharma, business director at PGI International, said: “PlatAfrica is a great initiative for us as it provides a platform for recognising and nurturing talent when it comes to design innovation in platinum jewellery. The technical calibre of the cohort of winners on this tour is an important reminder as to why such a platform is vital and why we must do more to unearth the creative talent that exists within the jewellery design space. It is a wonderful opportunity to bring new thinking and ideas to platinum and gives a new perspective on working with the metal.” The Star