Johannesburg - The Gauteng Department of Education has revealed that all the learners responsible for the food incident that happened at Alexandra High School have been suspended pending a disciplinary hearing. This follows a viral video where learners are seen throwing out food prepared for them during lunchtime. “Unfortunately, video footage of this unpleasant incident has since gone viral and sparked numerous false reports,” said the department. According to an official report, learners had to queue in order of their grades to get lunch. On the day of the incident, the lunch that was being served was uPhuthu and milk, which was indicated as the learners’ favourite meal, and given the excitement for the meal of the day, some learners became impatient in the queues. They allegedly began pushing and shoving other learners, causing a ruckus in the queues and disturbing those who were being served. Amid this commotion, senior learners reportedly grabbed the pot of food and dragged it away to dish it up for themselves. In the process, the food that was meant to benefit other learners spilled out, leading to further commotion. “The main culprits were identified in the morning of Friday, January 27, 2023, using surveillance footage at the school. These learners have since been suspended pending a disciplinary hearing that is scheduled for Tuesday, January 31, 2023.” “The efforts we have undertaken to ensure that all learners are placed are proving to succeed and will continue with these efforts to place the remaining learners in Tshwane West. We appeal to parents in Kempton Park to accept the placement measures we have developed for their children. We are also disappointed by the behaviour displayed by our learners, who destroyed food meant for learners,” said Gauteng Education MEC Matome Chiloane. “The School Nutrition Programme plays a vital role in the well-being of our learners. As such, it must be treated with respect and remembered as an initiative that is meant to benefit all learners equally.” The Star