Johannesburg - After years of keeping viewers entertained M-Net Local Entertainment Channels has announced that 1Magic’s “The River” is coming to an end with its upcoming sixth season. 1Magic’s flagship show, which was launched with the channel in 2018, made its impact beyond South African borders, being adopted in several other African countries, including Nigeria and Angola. With several impressive milestones, from clean sweeps at prestigious awards shows to more than 1 200 episodes aired, the Tshedza Pictures telenovela has been a game-changer in South African television. The show has scooped 26 Saftas out of 31 nominations, and with one 47th International Emmy Award nomination to its name, it remains the most-awarded telenovela in South Africa. "At M-Net Local Entertainment Channels, we would like to extend our most sincere gratitude to the cast and crew of “The River” for a memorable five years. Their hard work, dedication, and brilliance have led to the telenovela’s success. The final season is going to be the show’s most epic one yet. The drama will be bigger and better, setting the stage for the ultimate finale," says Shirley Adonisi, Director of Local Entertainment Channels at M-Net. Phathu Makwarela, Tshedza Pictures executive producer, said: "When we created ‘The River’ seven years ago, we knew that we wanted to tell a story that would have a definite ending.  “Now in its sixth season, we feel the time is right to bring the story of these beloved characters to an end, on our own terms and when viewers still treasure the show. As the saying goes, a good dancer always knows when to leave the stage, and now it’s that time for ‘The River’." Over the years,  the show has given leading names a platform to shine while unearthing new talent that has gone on to enjoy fruitful careers. This includes Zenokuhle Maseko, Larona Moagi, Lunga Mofokeng, Thabiso Ramotshela, Jessica Sithole, and most recently, Unathi Mkhize, Vuyo Biyela, and Tina Dlathu. The careers of actors such as Lawrence Maleka, Thembinkosi Mthembu, Lunga Shabalala, and Lunathi Mampofu grew due to the prominent characters that they played on the show. Hlomla Dandala held  the fort as the male protagonist, while Sindi Dlathu became the ultimate leading star, winning two Saftas for Best Actress and becoming a series co-executive producer. The Star