Johannesburg - The National Council of Provinces chairperson Amos Masondo said they are deeply concerned about the EFF’s threat to disrupt President Cyril Ramaphosa tonight. Ramaphosa is due to deliver his State of the Nation Address (Sona) this evening. The EFF vowed to disrupt Ramaphosa in parliament when he delivered Sona, and party leader Julius Malema called him to go amid criminal charges involving Phala Phala Farmgate. Masondo said they have the necessary tools to deal with the situation (disruption), and they will use the rules to deal with it. "We are of the view that whatever we do must be characterised by fairness and a level of firmness to ensure that everybody is kept in line," Masondo said. He said they also think that members of Parliament have a responsibility to ensure the dignity and decorum of the house. He said the threat by the EFF has been a feature of Parliament, which he said is very sad. "If you go to the Pan African Parliament and interact with the MPs from other countries, they always express a concern about this aspect that has become almost a characterization of our own legislature. We are equally concerned, and we think that everything possible must be done to ensure that Sona becomes a success and the work of parliament is not disturbed," Masondo said. The EFF said Ramaphosa has so far refused to account for the Phala Phala matter. Masondo, on the other hand, said that Phala Phala is not on the agenda, but Sona is. "The joint sitting in Parliament today will be convened to consider and discuss in coming days, the Sona. There is no other item on the agenda. The issue should be discussed on dedicated dates," Masondo said. He said MPs and political parties know where to raise the Phala Phala matter and should do so instead of using this day to discuss it. "It is inappropriate, and it is disrespectful also to the public because Sona is meant for the public to have a good sense of what are the issues economically, politically, socially on what is the program of government going forward," he said. Masondo said that measures had been put in place in the event that load shedding occurs in Parliament. He said he was not aware if there are plans for load shedding to be suspended for Sona. The Star