Joburg - Two suspects were arrested on Monday, while a third suspect was fatally shot by the police following a robbery on the R29 Road in Leslie, Mpumalanga, around 9am. According to Mpumalanga police spokesperson Brigadier Selvy Mohlala, a group of armed suspects attacked security guards who were carrying money bags bound for a location in Leslie. “As the security guards walked with the bags of cash, it is alleged that the suspects suddenly opened fire on them, but luckily no one was injured at the time. The suspects then robbed the guards of the cash bags,” Mohlala said. The police at Leslie were alerted about the incident, and they swiftly responded. “One of the suspects inside a silver-grey VW Polo was shot during a shootout. Police managed to intercept the two suspects near business shops and arrested them, and the two are believed to have been part of the group of robbers,” Mohlala said. “Although some of the suspects managed to evade arrest, the police will not back down, but will continue to pursue them. Three firearms, one pistol as well as two revolvers, were confiscated from the suspects. Police further recovered three of the cash bags, which were reportedly stolen during the robbery.” The police said the recovered firearms would be subjected to ballistic testing to determine any linkages to other crimes committed in the country. The two suspects will be charged with armed robbery and possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition. The suspects will appear before the Leslie Periodical Court on Wednesday, facing the said charges. “Police cannot rule out the possibility of adding more charges as the investigation continues. Currently, the investigators are busy gathering details at the crime scene, including establishing the amount of cash robbed by the suspects. The suspect who was shot certified dead by paramedics on the scene, and he is yet to be identified by his family,” the police said. The Provincial Commissioner of the SAPS in Mpumalanga, Lieutenant-General Semakaleng Daphney Manamela, has welcomed the arrest of the two suspects.  She is adamant that as the investigation proceeds, other unresolved cases of a similar nature will be solved. The Star