Johannesburg – Ten people, including an elderly woman and her grandchild, were shot and killed in separate incidents in Qunu, Eastern Cape. The senseless killings in the OR Tambo District Municipality last night and in the early hours of this morning has sent shockwaves through the locals since this is not the first time happening in the area; last November, a total of seven people were shot and killed. Eastern Cape police Commissioner Lieutenant General Nomthetheleli Mene condemned the killings and announced that a task team had been set up to find the culprits. SAPS spokesperson Colonel Priscilla Naidu said in the first incident, unknown suspects entered a homestead in the Thantseka location at about 8pm and shot a 62-year-old woman and her 13-year-old grandson. “It is alleged that they then proceeded to the second house and shot and killed a 44-year-old woman, the daughter of the elderly woman,” said Naidu. She said the motive for the attack was unknown. Naidu said in a second, unrelated incident, unknown gunmen entered a rondavel in Qunu and opened fire on seven people (four men and three women). “All seven were fatally wounded. It has not yet been established whether the two incidents are linked,” she said. Unathi Ncedeni, who lost two relatives in the shooting, said the place was drug den and the killings are drug-related. Ncedeni said the house belonged to one of the victims, a 46-year-old. He said he was called in after witnesses noticed his two relatives were among the people confirmed dead. “This place is a known drug den and there was a war between different gangsters that led to this killing. Another man survived because he did not have enough money to buy drugs; that is how he survived,” said Ncedeni. Naidu said anyone with information that could lead to the arrest of the suspects was urged to contact the station commander of SAPS Bityi, Lieutenant Colonel Lindile Maqungwana, at 079 696 0708. Eight people were killed in a mass murder in Gqeberha, in the Eastern Cape, in January. When Police Minister Bheki Cele visited the place, he promised the families that arrests would be made soon. ntombi.nkosi@inl.co.za The Star