Johannesburg - The Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa (Denosa) has delivered President Cyril Ramaphosa's State of the Nation Address (Sona) in Parliament. Denosa said in a statement that it expected the president to put a lot of focus on the National Health Insurance (NHI) plans as well as on the country’s deteriorating health-care services, as many South Africans and patients are being deprived of quality health care due to ongoing gross shortages of staff and resources at facilities. The nursing union said that this comes just a few weeks after the International Council of Nurses (ICN) urged many wealthier countries to stop recruiting nurses from low to middle-income countries, which struggle to produce nurses on their own. "Denosa also expects the South African government not to be part of the ongoing global phenomenon whereby developed and developing countries are poaching the few nurses in low-income countries that are struggling to produce appropriate numbers of health-care professionals as a result of their poor economic standing," read the party statement. Denosa said that it raised this point because, in August last year, the South African government included a number of nursing specialisations on its list of scarce skills. "This means the country is starting to accept nurse specialists from foreign countries into the country, thus leaving dire shortages of specialist nurses in those countries," said the statement. The trade union said that South Africa had been silent on the NHI, although the implementation year for this system is 2026. "There is a lot that still needs to be put in place to ensure a seamless process of transition. For instance, many health-care facilities need to be certified to ensure they meet the compliance standard requirements for providing NHI services. There are very few movements since an assessment was made of many health-care facilities that needed serious facelifts and improvements, with some needing to be rebuilt from scratch," added the statement. Denosa went on to say that the country's public health-care system was suffering from a shocking shortage of about 27 000 nurses, while approximately 5 000 nurses were simply sitting at home looking for work. Its major concern is that due to South Africa’s unresolved challenge of producing specialist nurses from its system, the country is well on its way to becoming the disruptor of health-care services in many African countries as many nurses in those countries would be willing to come to South Africa when their countries can barely afford to produce specialist nurses. They also pointed out that there is no way that South Africa will attract specialist nurses from developed countries; it will attract nurses from poorer countries. "Many developed countries are starting to strike exchange deals with African countries where they want to take nurses from the many countries easily in exchange for producing nurses in the country because it is cheaper to produce nurses in mid to low-income countries like South Africa. Denosa’s concern with this is that the South African government will become heavily dependent on foreign countries to fund the production of nurses, even for its own citizens. There is something wrong with that from every angle," said Denosa. The Star