Johannesburg - After hundreds of entry submissions from all corners of the country, the new thrilling reality show, Unlock Your 100% has finally graced the screens, introducing all contestants who will be courageously showing off their creativity on a national platform. In this show by Clover Krush, viewers will get to witness passionate people break out of their shells as they show Mzansi what it means to unlock their inner passion. The show features aspiring contestants who have dreams of pursuing their hidden talents, paired with illustrious celebrity mentors who aid and sharpen the contestants’ skills for the weekly reveals. Last year, Clover called out to locals, encouraging them to enter a competition that promised to change their lives forever. Hopefuls entered by buying any Clover KRUSH and sharing a video of themselves on WhatsApp or social media with the hashtag #KRUSH, talking about their lifelong dreams and why they deserve a spot on the show. Miantha Roux-Clover, business unit head, spoke about the show and its significance. "Krush stands for 100% goodness, and we believe that through this show, we will help South Africans live at 100%. It’s about helping people unlock their full potential and bring out the goodness within themselves, whatever that might be," says Roux-Clover. "We received phenomenal entries from people of different backgrounds wanting to unlock their 100% and live their dreams. The show is filled with heartfelt moments, laughter, and even tears of joy! Unlock Your 100% with Krush TV show appeals to everyone, motivating them to follow their passions and ambitions," says Nicole Annandale, senior brand manager. The show is set to take viewers on a whirlwind of inspiration and get them engrossed in the home-grown talents of fellow South Africans. This new reality TV show, Unlock Your 100%, advocates creativity, passion, and the drive to showcase some of South Africa’s hidden talent. Unlock Your 100% premiered on February 1 on SABC 2 with Kagiso Moja, Rafeeqah Daniels, Happy Nkuna, Thinus Marais, and Isaac Banda as the selected contestants.  The Star