Johannesburg - The Democratic Alliance (DA) says there is only one way to honour former national assembly speaker Frene Ginwala, and that is to rebuild parliament, a section of which was burned to ashes in an alleged arson incident in January 2022. This is according to DA chief whip Siviwe Gwarube, who delivered a fitting tribute to Ginwala during a special joint sitting of legislators held in parliament on Monday. Ginwala was the first speaker of South Africa’s first post-apartheid democratic parliament. She passed away recently at the age of 90 after suffering a stroke. She was a constitutional expert, feminist, and journalist. "On behalf of the DA, I would like to formally extend our deepest condolences to the friends and family of Dr Frene Ginwala; her political party, the African National Congress (ANC); and all those whose lives were touched by her work over the course of a life well-lived... The death of the first speaker of the first democratic Parliament comes at a seminal time in our country and indeed for this institution too,“ Gwarube said. She described Ginwala as a formidable academic and feminist who inspired young women such as herself to take up politics as a career. "The death of this formidable feminist, academic, freedom fighter, and trailblazer has made me, a young leader in South Africa, pause for thought about the role that we are playing in bettering the lives of the people who elected us to serve them," Gwarube added. She noted that when the first democratic Parliament was founded, it was built on the foundation of a racially segregated South Africa, but many, like Ginwala, committed themselves to building a democratic country. "Parliament as an institution was critical to that national project. It was in those Houses that laws were passed that would go on to give effect to our Constitution, a document lauded the world over for being progressive,“ Gwarube said. Ginwala began the work of establishing the culture, rules, and procedures of Parliament, working from a completely blank slate. "If we are to honour the life of Dr Frene Ginwala, we must rebuild Parliament," she said. She said the rebuilding of Parliament, after being gutted by the January 2022 fire, needed to be committed to as soon as possible. "We need to make sure that the rubble which was once the House that changed the course of South Africa, is rebuilt without any delay. We need to make sure that the contribution of the first Speaker of the National Assembly is recorded in the Parliament that will be rebuilt, similar to the Mandela Bust, which stands proudly in front of the Assembly," she said. The Star