Johannesburg - Patriotic Alliance deputy president Kenny Kunene said he would do his best to serve the residents of Johannesburg in his new portfolio as MMC for Roads and Transport in the City of Johannesburg. On Thursday, newly minted Johannesburg Mayor Thapelo Amad announced Kunene as the political head of the Roads and Transport portfolio. Kunene was expected to use his new portfolio to prove that the PA can lead. His party was also preparing him for the provincial and national elections next year, with Kunene being presented as the PA’s premier candidate for Gauteng. "This is about showing servant leadership and true commitment to a very important portfolio," Kunene said. Kunene was expected to donate his salary as an MMC to the poor. He told The Star  that he understands the frustrations of the people of Johannesburg and wishes to serve the municipality with vigour. "We know our roads, storm drains, bridges, and transport infrastructure in general as a city are in a state of near-permanent crisis, especially after last year’s flood damage. We have to do more than ever, with less, so I understand the scale of the challenge, but I am ready to roll up my sleeves and work," he said. ANC Johannesburg regional leader, Dada Morero, was announced as MMC in charge of Finance; former ANC deputy regional chairperson Eunice Mgcina was chosen as MMC for Development Planning; Loyiso Masuku, one of the most influential ANC members in the region, was chosen to be MMC for Group Corporate and Shared Services; Nomoya Mnisi, an ANC member, was appointed to Economic Development; and Jack Sekwaila was chosen for Infrastructure Development. The PA also received the Housing Portfolio, which will be headed by Anthea Leitch. The EFF also scored two portfolios: Public Safety, which will be headed by Sepetlele Raseruthe, and Health and Social Development headed by Ennie Makhafola. The minority parties had also scooped up one more seat, as Lubabalo Magwentshu from ATM is the new MMC for Community Development. The Star understands that two new councillors will be sworn in as councillors on Friday and the entire team will be sworn in as MMCs on Monday. The Star