Johannesburg - The Free State Department of Education has fiercely condemned the physical abuse of a 17-year-old learner who was reportedly assaulted by a bus driver on January 30 in Hoopstad, Free State. This comes on the heels of a harrowing video clip that has since gone viral on various social media platforms, in which a 56-year-old bus driver is seen physically assaulting a learner in a bus, kicking the learner on his stomach and punching him. Free State Education MEC, Dr Tate Makgoe, said he was appalled by the abuse the learner was subjected to. “I am completely disgusted by this physical and emotional abuse of this learner and others who witnessed this brutality. “This man must be permanently barred from working with our children,” he said. Makgoe revealed that his department was providing learner transport to farm learners to allow them to access basic education by protecting them from travelling long distances to and from schools. “We have instructed the transport owner to immediately suspend the driver,” said Makgoe. The matter has also been reported to the Department of Social Development, which is the custodian of the Children’s Act. “The Social Department will take further steps to ensure that children are protected from further abuse by this perpetrator as prescribed in the Children’s Act.” Police have also confirmed that the 56-year-old bus driver was arrested and facing common assault and attempted murder charges. He was expected to appear in the Hoopstad Magistrate’s Court today. “The 56-year-old bus driver was arrested, and he is facing common assault and attempted murder charges. He is expected to appear in the Hoopstad Magistrate Court on February 3, 2023.” Giving detailed information about the incident, the police said the learner was waiting for the bus with other learners in Hoopstad. The bus arrived, came to a stop, and the bus driver alighted with a name list. “He started to call the names of the learners until the learner was the only one left on the ground. The learner then decided to enter the bus to ask the bus driver why he cannot use the school bus to school,” according to the police. “It is alleged that the bus driver started to assault the learner and strangled him. The learner tried to fight back, but he was overpowered by the bus driver. The learner ultimately alighted the bus to report the incident to his mother.” The Star