Johannesburg - The country is burning under the leadership of President Cyril Ramaphosa, who recently apologised for the endless blackouts. Parts of Gauteng, the Eastern Cape and other provinces are experiencing water shortages and a lack of service delivery, which have led to spiralling protests from angry citizens. While that is a problem, the cost of living is now more expensive than before, a crisis that is contributing to high poverty and crime levels. When he took office in 2018, he urged South Africans to “thuma mina”, loosely translated as “send me”. However, the promises he made, including getting rid of corruption, are haunting him. Political analyst Professor Sipho Seepe said on the political front, the ANC was in the worst state that it had ever been. Seepe said recent polls indicated that the party would do far worse in the elections than was predicted. The new low is 40%. He said the party was more divided and directionless. “Ramaphosa was presented as a leader who would take the country to the new heights of economic growth, reduce unemployment and to deal with corruption. Crime is rife. Load shedding has destroyed many businesses. Its effect on small and medium enterprises has been catastrophic. Ramaphosa’s administration has reversed all the gains of democracy. White arrogance and racist attacks have reached stratospheric levels,” Seepe said. He claimed Ramaphosa’s predecessor, Jacob Zuma’s administration performed better than his. “Zuma’s administration turned the corner around the country’s genocidal policy on HIV/Aids. The country experienced the biggest infrastructure development. Load shedding was addressed,” Seepe said. He said load shedding began when Ramaphosa became president. “Load shedding returned when Ramaphosa became president. Yes, there are missteps along the way, including what is referred to as state capture. But the damage wrought by Ramaphosa’s administration is more than tenfold. Eskom has wasted almost trillions of rand since 2018. And there is no end in sight,” Seepe said. The ANC Lekgotla said the country’s energy crisis needed to be solved urgently. Ramaphosa last week announced that it would be necessary to declare a national state of disaster because that would enable them to have the instruments that would be necessary to fully address the challenge that the nation is facing. “The lekgotla also said the president must co-ordinate all these processes that we need to embark upon to ensure that the energy crisis is properly addressed, like we did during Covid-19,” Ramaphosa said. Energy expert Chris Yelland, in an interview with one of the broadcasters, was asked if the move by the government to consider a state of disaster was risky and said he believed it could only be positive if the government knew exactly what it planned to do with the emergency powers that it would receive. “We have seen in the past with Covid-19 then indeed it can be abused, and if this is to allow unfettered emergency procurement like emergency procurement of coal occurred in the past, allowing all kinds of irregularities as a result of bypassing due processes in procurement, then I think it can be a very dangerous move. But if it’s done on a limited basis for a limited time with a definite identified set of actions, I think it could be a useful instrument,” Yelland said. ANC secretary-general Fikile Mbalula last week said the ANC planned on ending load shedding by next year, the year when the country will hold its national elections. The Star