Johannesburg - The 2023 State of the Nation address (Sona) delivered by President Cyril Ramaphosa in Cape Town serves as one of the crucial events that usher the country in a new trajectory. This affair was fully physical, and all attendees, including Members of Parliament and guests, were present in the chamber and the public gallery at Cape Town’s City Hall. The prelude to this important night is helmed by other affairs, such as the red carpet, which gives a glimpse into the fashion side of the dignitaries. Most MPs seem to heed the call by Ramaphosa to support local businesses and designers bringing their A-game to the red carpet. As always, there were “hits and misses”, but who strutted the red carpet and stole the show? Acting Public Protector Kholeka Gcaleka looked ravishing in her body-hugging pink maxi dress, finishing her attire with an updo that simply defined her countenance. Esteemed media personality Basetsana Kumalo is known for her exquisite fashion style, and she stunned in her turquoise dress, which she topped up with a Louis Vuitton handbag and black shades. Mandla Mandela was also on the red carpet and is a known reveller in the proceedings. It was said that Mandela wore attire from Senegal, as part of promoting African tradition. Deputy Minister of Sports, Arts, and Culture Nocawe Noncedo Mafu showed up with a locally designed dress, heeding Ramaphosa’s call of supporting proudly South African products. With African prints known to always have a way of showing grandeur elegantly, Deputy Minister of Basic Education Dr Reginah Mhaule wore an Ankara two-piece. #SONA2023 #LeaveNoOneBehind pic.twitter.com/LHsLh5wxAk This year, we saw quite an impressive and distinct fashion sense being donned by the attendees, who paired them with beautiful smiles as they confidently walked to the hall. Other prominent names who looked striking were Lindiwe Sisulu, Lindiwe Zulu, Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, Vuyo Zungula, Thoko Didiza, Pemmy Majodina, and Mmamoloko Kubayi. "We can certainly state that it is all systems go for the 2023 State of the Nation Address," said the Speaker of the National Assembly, Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, briefing the media in Cape Town. She said approximately 490 members of Parliament, including 10 representatives of Salga, will be accommodated on the floor of the chamber, while 263 guests, made up of representatives of various sectors of society, will be accommodated in the public gallery of the hall. The Star