Johannesburg - President Cyril Ramaphosa has declared the country’s energy crisis a national state of disaster with immediate effect. This comes in spite of threats by the EFF and other political parties to take to the streets in a national shutdown should Ramaphosa make this declaration. Last week, Ramaphosa announced the decision to declare the energy crisis  a national state of disaster during the conclusion of the ANC national executive committee (NEC) lekgotla in Kempton Park. Ramaphosa, who was speaking during the State of the Nation Address on Thursday, said that this declaration will enable the government to intervene in a number of aspects to ensure the energy crisis is given the focus it deserves. He said the crisis has become a huge concern in the minds and hearts of ordinary South Africans who want it resolved. “We are therefore declaring a national state of disaster to deal with the energy crisis. The minister has just gazetted the declaration, which begins with immediate effect. “This will enable us to provide the practical measures we need to take to support a number of businesses to ensure uninterrupted power supply. It will allow us to exempt critical infrastructure like hospitals and treatment plants from load shedding,” he said. “We are focusing on our energy crisis, and this is necessary because an effective response to the crisis involves several departments and entities. We will be including other social partners similar to the drive with the (Covid-19) vaccine a few years ago. This crisis is an existential crisis to our country, and we must address this crisis with no delay. The co-ordination when it comes to addressing the electricity crisis is an important instrument I need, hence we will have ministers focusing day and night on this crisis we have been dealing with,” he said. Ramaphosa said the load-shedding problem cannot be solved without enlisting other ways of generating energy, including gas, nuclear, and renewable energy, adding that the just transition to a low-carbon economy will still continue and will be done at a pace and cost that the country can afford. He said funds and a range of investments have already been set aside to ensure that the country is able to continue with the commitments made to ensure that happens. “Through this investment plan, more than R1 trillion will be invested in this plan, which will include new sectors emerging in our economy and emerging fast. Green energy is at the centre of this, and as we move on, we will be able to address all these new technologies and new industries. This new period ushers in a number of opportunities to create jobs,” he said. He said just the transition and the green energy will develop new industries and create much-needed jobs, which have become hard to come by following the devastation of the recent pandemic. He said provinces such as the Northern Cape, KwaZulu-Natal, and other rural towns and cities are starting to attract investment in green energy. “Our just transition will prioritise jobs and rural areas to ensure no one gets left behind,” he said. He said there are intelligence-driven operations at Eskom sites that have resulted in the arrest of those responsible for sabotage at the power utility. “Later this year, we will table an energy amendment bill comparable to other markets. With the view to addressing the load-shedding crisis, we are going to roll out the installation of roof-top solar panels. Treasury is working on a loan scheme for small business and banks to borrow from the scheme for leasing of solar panels, and private developers to generate electricity,” he said. Ramaphosa has called on companies as well as the government to remove the requirement for prior work experience for young people seeking entry-level positions. “We urge companies and state-owned companies to remove the requirement for work experience. Where will our young people acquire experience if they are not given the opportunities to do so? One of the key ingredients for competitiveness is to attract the skills the economy needs,” he said. The Star